I left Phnom Penh with a box of heavy mangoes, fresh from a farm. They must weigh 10 kg and I miraculously got past check-in even though I didn’t purchase baggage. Three white guys before me had all their bags weighed; and they had little bags. I had a medium sized backpack, a ukulele and a box of mangoes. The man didn’t even blink as he handed me my passport back without asking me anything. I thanked God that no one was planning to seize my poor mangoes.
An hour later, after a mostly smooth ride, my mangoes and I arrived in Bangkok. The taxi driver sure was grumpy. I was trying to get to Victory Monument, not knowing the Thai name was Anusawari. He argued with me about the name, but we got there anyhows, and he dropped my mangoes and I at the exact place I needed to be, so it was a good thing, even for a grumpy taxi driver.
What followed was a long van ride to Kanchanaburi, followed by a short motorcycle ride to a friend’s home. By now, my mangoes were groaning and bruised. I released a few of them to a few friends. My friend, Sunday was waiting for me. She had arrived from Ratchaburi that morning, having been awaiting news about her refugee status to the US.
“Would you like to come to the refugee camp with me?” She asked, “Your friend Killo is waiting for you.”
Killo lives in the refugee camp and I found out that she  and her family were also emigrating to the US. So I said I would go.
“I will tell Killo,” Sunday says excitedly, “She will make dinner.”
Another bumpy ride. My mangoes were getting more bruised and ripe by the minute.
“Are you sure I could go into the camp? Do I even look Karen?” I asked, “Especially with my glasses?”
We stopped off at a place called Suan Phueng. Everyone tells me I should take off my glasses when we pass the checkpoint, and a letter was miraculously procured to give me an excuse to enter and exit. On the way to the refugee camp, Sunday tells a story of how Killo’s family were once detained by Thai police when they came out of the camp and put in a detention centre and they reacted by cheerfully singing and praying.  She was laughing; everyone in the car was laughing at the story. That’s the thing about the Karen, nothing ever seems like too big of a problem.
We reached the checkpoint. I took off my glasses and saw blur images of two guys sticking their head through the driver’s window. I said “hello” softly in Karen and then shut my mouth. The rest chatted. Five minutes later, we were on our way. My flip-flops were new out of the bag, a free gift from somewhere. When I got off the car, I was slipping almost every second on the  muddy ground. The rain had stopped.
I had taught in a Karen school in the border and visited a few Karen villages, so their houses weren’t foreign to me. But the proximity was. Each house was located extremely close to one another; Sunday told me this was different in another camp. We stopped at Killo’s house and she beamed and gave me a warm hug. I also met her sister and mother. My mangoes heaved a sigh of relief as I finally stopped slipping on mud and put them down to rest.
“Shower?” Sunday asked.
I nodded.
“Is it okay if we shower outside?”
I was used to showering in an outhouse toilet, with a door. But this time, it was open air. I followed my friend out in a sarong, slipping (again) as we went down a tiny path to the river. There, we filled up the buckets with water. Across the river, a man was taking a shower. I eyed him gingerly as I splashed myself with a small bucket, careful not to let anything slip. In the end, a city girl likes her privacy.
It had started to rain again even before we finished. I followed Sunday up the path when she suddenly said, “There’s a snake!”
I jumped back. I hate snakes. I hate snakes. I hate snakes.
“WHERE?! WHERE?!” My glasses had water drops all over, if there was a snake around, I probably couldn’t see it clearly.
“It’s gone now. It went in the hole.”
I still had to go up the path, the path with the hole where the snake just went in. Squealing inside, I hurried up the path to the safety of the house where my mangoes lay.
After a dinner of rice, canned fish and fresh vegetables, we sat around while I taught Killo’s sister how to play the ukulele. She was a fast learner, being the guitar player at church. Sunday was missing her daughter badly. She hadn’t seen her almost 2 year old in weeks since the little girl and her father was registered in another refugee camp in Mae Sot in Northern Thailand. The longer the wait for their status, the longer she couldn’t see her family. I wished I could see her too; the last time I saw her, she couldn’t speak yet. I heard that she was now quite the chatterbox, speaking both Karen and English.
At 8.30pm, we went to bed. A little early than what I was used to, but as we wrapped the mosquito net around us, the cool air was a relief from the warm weather I was exposed to in both Phnom Penh and Bangkok. I’m sure my mangoes were quite relieved too. There wasn’t a single light, I could hear the cute babbling of a baby next door as I drifted to sleep.
A few months ago, I wrote a blog post on leaving the corporate world to volunteer and the experiences it gave me. It was a lot of jumping points for re-thinking one’s life goals, careers and the material world. However, I wanted to be careful not to romanticize the idea too much.
karen-villageI say this from experience. Graduating from college, my view of the world was naive and idealistic. I saw the good in everyone and wanted to share all I had. It often comes as a shock that others do not think the same way and a major one came in the form of a good friend who suddenly turned into a different person over a money spat with me. Being young (and again, naive), I lost hope, avowed money and ran off to a  jungle in Burma to volunteer teach. It was the beginning of my education, a real education outside of college.
It wasn’t the first time I volunteered. I have enjoyed volunteering since college, teaching and working with immigrants or minority adults and learning about their lives. I had also grown up partly in Indonesia, so I was not completely clueless about Southeast Asia or the level of its poverty. But still, being a grown up and experiencing it was different. Every person and every country had their own situations. My South American student crossed the desert illegally for hope of a better life. My African-American students struggles to get a job and sees immigrants as a big problem. My Karen students are caught in a civil war and chased off by the Burmese military. My Indonesian students are struggling to grasp the idea of entrepreneurship to make it through low wages and education level in the country. And the stories go on.
ypu-kidsTo put a long story short, that journey took me to the corporate world, which I shortly traded for two years of travel, volunteer and long-lasting friendship and then back to the corporate world again. The first time, it didn’t last because I didn’t know what I wanted to live for and why I was trading my time for a sum of money I didn’t know what to do with.
But this time, I know my direction, I know where I’m heading. I know enough to know that life is more than branded items and cars. I know enough to know that giving money and teaching others about financial education can go a long way. That friends, family and love provide the greatest joy in the world. That much are to be treasured about the simple things in life.
Along the same line, I don’t wish to condemn wealth generation. By all means, go for it, it will improve your lives. Just remember to do it with a sensible mind and not let it consume you to the point that you becomes less of a human. Keep learning, keep growing, keep traveling, keep volunteering and doing good and let those experiences transform you and guide your decisions. Instead of feeling guilty or terrible for having a more privileged life than others, be thankful and use it to fuel yourself to make a difference. In the end, whatever you do, even when things go wrong and all your plans go to naught, remember that there are much to be grateful for in your lives.
This is why I encourage people who haven’t to travel, see a different side of the world and do some good. It wasn’t a waste of time for me, and I don’t think it will be for you either. I don’t think it matters how old you are, but please do enjoy the ride and tell your tale.
And no, my education has not ended, I will continue to grow as an individual, the journey’s only starting. 
“What do you do?”
“I volunteer at an orphanage.”
My answer usually invites curiosity, slight disbelief or no response. But for the first time today, someone stared at me as if I told him the sun had died and then laughed. Said nothing and then continued laughing. Finally, the person paused, and said, “I have a hard time controlling my laughter. You’re serious? You really do that?”
“Yes,” I responded, rather defensively, wondering what this person was up to.
“And what do you do there?”
“I teach English, do marketing, maintain the website and translate documents etc.”
“That’s quite a lot of work. Do you get paid for it?”
“No.”
More laughter.
“You went to University to do that?! Where is your career drive? All the people I met who’s your age are all really ambitious. You’re the strangest person I’ve met. If I was your dad, man if I was your dad, I would never let you do that.”
The fellow went on to reiterate how strange etc. I was and he wasn’t much older than I was.
“You’re still young,” I said, “I mean, I don’t plan to do this [ie. work for no money] forever. But I’m finding it absurd that you find this so absurd. Have you ever though what your life’s purpose was, as in, what do you think you can contribute to this world while you’re alive?”
From his face, it was clear no one has ever asked him that question. He just shook his head, “I just want to earn money so I can retire and have a great life.”
“And what makes you happy? Being able to buy all the things you want to buy?” I continued.
“Yes.”
I don’t think there’s anything wrong with his viewpoint, I too want a great retirement and hey buying whatever I want is great! I’m not Mother Theresa, I like material comfort too…And then it went on…
“And this orphanage, you didn’t set it up did you, you just joined it later?” He ventured.
“Yes, I didn’t set it up.”
He sighed with relief, “Phew… thank goodness. You would be even more abnormal if you had been the founder.”
“What?! What’s wrong? I think it would be great if I can set up something in the future as well. Don’t you see how we’re helping all these people and the children?”
He shook his head with disbelief, “I can’t imagine, so much effort, for a non-profit. A non-profit! Can you imagine something NOT PROFITING AND MAKING MONEY??”
Maybe I won’t live in a village everyday, but I’m having a little fun while carrying my friend’s niece
I took the time to educate him with the idea of social entrepreneurship to let him know profit can be used for good and left the conversation at there. But thinking about it, while I was rather miffed by his attitude, it’s more SAD than anything.
Because of their life experiences, upbringing or other factors, they will never ever experience even the tiniest shred of the joy I feel. That joy of living in a simple village, listening to crickets, sleeping on a bare mat on the cold cement floor and yet feeling an incomparable warmth in your heart. That joy of of laughing with a group of people who had lost people and places dear to them, but still manage to smile at the new day. That joy when, late at night, your students talk to you, tell you about their dreams and how they want to change their destiny. To watch at such close distance how their eyes glow with hope and how much they have gone through and their determination.
“I want to go to University,” one of Yayasan Prima Unggul student explained her determination to me, “No one in my family had any education. I want to make them proud.”
If you’ve never tried something, you wouldn’t know how it feels like? I think that’s precisely what these people are like. I can experience the kind of materialistic joy they enjoy at any time and yet I can still experience a different type of joy. I pity them. They’ll never know what it’s like to experience the different flavors of life.
In the last few months, I have sang solo on the street for fun in multiple countries, made a fool of myself dancing the Dangdut (type of Indonesian music) in front of 200 laughing audience, gone to a bar just to talk to people, “flown” on a flying fox, jumped off a 12m cliff, went tubing down a cave and a river, fell down multiple times in multiple places, hung out with the mafia of a community and sang with organized street singers.
It might seem like ordinary activities to some, but not for me.
When I was in 2nd grade, I was so scared to ask the teacher for permission to go the toilet that I held it in and wet my uniform… In other words, I was a painfully shy child who was too scared to do anything and it lasted through my teenage years even up to college.
After graduating in 2010, I took a short trip to Malaysia (KL), Laos, Thailand before going on to volunteer-teach English in the Thai-Burmese jungle. It was the first time I had traveled within my own region – Southeast Asia – and met so many wonderful people who touched my life. It was the beginning of a spark I didn’t know of yet.
I got a job in Singapore in the beginning of 2011, had a stable income but was frustrated by the lack of time to do anything else with a schedule of 9-6 (add commute and you have 8-7). I planned a short trip at the end of the year to visit my students and thought that would help with the frustration.
August 2011, my application to a 2 week media camp on journalism, video journalism and debate in Thailand was approved. I had been waiting to enter that camp for a year since meeting a few of the alumni during my 2010 trip. My 2 weeks unpaid leave request was rejected; I quit my job the next day.
The camp gave me my identity of being Southeast Asian, one I didn’t know I had all along. I started doing online volunteer for different organizations in Indonesia while carrying out freelance web design. I spent the end of the year and new year in Thailand as planned and thought I would return to the 8-6 working world.
I was wrong. The few short travels I’ve managed to experience has given me a taste of how much more I was learning and growing.
And so here I am, realizing that travel isn’t really about seeing new places or eating exotic food. It is about the people, the friendships made and the stories and laughter we shared. Beyond that, it’s also about challenging yourself to do things you’ve never dared to do before.
The past 10 days has been hectic and wildly exciting at the same time.
When I landed on Bangkok’s Suvarnabhumi Airport, the immigration line was strangely short and I got through hassle free. Then I met up with other members of the first Asia Youth Forum team and boarded the bus for Pattaya, where we would stay at the Thammasat University Learning Campus.
The shock of the workload came and my media team partner Cindi and I got to work interviewing the trainers and writing up their profiles. When the participants arrived and the Karl Popper Debate Championship started, I did more interviews with all sorts of wonderful young people and coaches from Cambodia, Nepal, Laos, Palestine, Pakistan, Vietnam etc.
The media team head, Vanitha, my journalism trainer from the 2011 media camp in Chiang Mai, guided me in all my writings and has proven to be a great mentor with her experience as a sub-editor for the Star in Malaysia.
Needless to say, I’ve made so many amazing friends and it’s really not all about work. We held an entertaining culture night where I got to see costumes and traditional dances from many different countries and sampled food of all kinds (The chocolate lover in me squealed in delight at the Slovakian chocolate bars one of the trainers brought yum yum!).
Superbly embarrassing.
The other Indonesians and I performed Iwak Peyek, a Dangdut song from Indonesia. It was most embarrassing and the audience couldn’t stop laughing at the ridiculous looking movements we were doing (We were doing more of a robo dangdut than dangdut).
We also had talent night where many participants showcased their talent. I played on my ukulele and my girlfriends did a fake Hawaiian dance along with the audience.
Of course, the late night swimming, beer, and other exciting things continue. 
What the hell was I doing here?
It was Friday night; my one month in Thailand had made me restless. I was alone in a hotel lounge I’ve never been to before in Singapore, an orange juice in hand. (I’ve had enough of beer in Thailand) People were sitting in groups; I’ve never done this before, but here goes nothing.
I approached a table with an empty chair and asked if I could join them. They looked surprised, but acquiesced. Being clumsy as usual, I placed my glass on the table a tad bit too hard, creating a loud “ching” that shocked everyone. A sheepish smile, though I was so used to things like that happening I didn’t feel even half embarrassed, I sat myself down. Then we just talked.
After police chased us off twice in Bangkok, I thought the same would happen in Chiang Mai. But this guy just tapped along to the music!
I wouldn’t have the guts to do all this a year ago. Go out of the way just to talk to strangers, are you positively out of your mind? Not to mention I’ve gone so far as to singing on the streets of Thailand for fun (we got 10 baht!) without feeling a hint of reservation (probably because my friends were with me).
For as long as I can remember, I have always been incredibly shy. I kept private blogs and kept to myself for the most part. I would be too shy to look people in the eye or do anything out of the ordinary. I was the quiet kid in class who didn’t dare to raise up my hands to ask any questions.
What happened?
I think forcing myself out of the comfort zone helped. I wasn’t always comfortable, I didn’t always want to do everything I did. There’s always a degree of apprehension when you do everything alone.
But each time I push myself to go talk to someone, ask them if they need help, or go to someplace I’ve never been before, explore and look at things at a new perspective – strangers become friends, the unfamiliar becomes exciting.
It won’t always be pleasant. There are times when I feel awkward or out of place, but in the end, I always agree that overall it was great fun!
So go out, travel, talk to people, volunteer, be part of something, do something you’ve never done before, do something crazy, always be kind and smile. 
We spent the morning practicing the skit and laughing at ourselves. My friend, Hui Bing (a special needs teacher), was visiting Jakarta from Singapore. As with any other person coming or living in the region, I immediately invited her to guest teach at Yayasan Prima Unggul, an orphanage entrepreneurship high school in Jakarta.
When Hui Bing first showed me the first version of her costume, I almost died laughing. 
While the students learn English as part of their high school curriculum, their level is very basic and they barely have any chance to practice it conversationally. So the idea was to allow them a chance to practice speaking English and be comfortable with the language, without having to worry about grammar or proper sentence structure. Hui Bing and I wrote up a short skit to show the student.
The premise of the skit was quite simple – A robbery. An old lady (played by your truly) is on her way to the bank when a robber (played by Hui Bing) comes at her with a knife and demands her purse. To play the part, I donned a shower cap, wore a long jacket and a sarong, walked with a bent back and the support of a long umbrella. As a twist, the robber gets beaten up by the unusually stubborn old lady with her umbrella. The robber drops her knife and runs for her life while the old lady continues about as if nothing has happened. Later, the dejected robber laments her actions and gets consoled by a Tukang Ngamen (Singing Beggar; common in Indonesia) and decides to live a proper, honest life.
Practicing the skit took a while as we couldn’t stop laughing at each other’s ridiculous appearances. We also brought along a bag full of sarongs, hats and other props the students could use later.
Oww my poor back… says grandma.
When we reached the orphanage housing, we could hear singing from the outside. If you’ve read the first ever post I wrote on YPU, you should know that the students love to sing. Once we entered into the actual main hall, I was just awed and speechless. The students’ voices resonated loudly in the small room like the chorus of angels, along with the melodious sound of their Angklung (a traditional Indonesian instrument). It was just one of the most beautiful things I’ve ever heard in my life; I honestly can’t praise them enough except to say, if you have a chance, come hear them sing live. (in the meantime, watch a short video of them here).
After presenting the skit to the students, we broke them into groups of four or five and asked them to write their own 3-4 minutes English language skit on any topic. While their English is very basic, by pushing them out of their comfort zone, many actually managed to write spectacular pieces. I thought the kids had a lot of fun, especially with the clothing and ukulele. (Many of them happily took on the role of the Pengamen – Singing beggar, though their instrument of choice is usually the guitar) The acting talents of some of the students could also be clearly seen. One student had cried so realistically I was almost worried it was real.
The students practicing their skit.
As with the director, I believe that guest teachers or speakers not only inspire the students and motivate them (knowing that people outside are so keen about them), they also have a lot of valuable knowledge to share and also exposes the students to different kinds of individuals and communication situations. Matthew Rickard, the founder of Footsteps for Good in Singapore has also guest-taught for them in early in January. He taught the students vision boarding and the students’ vision boards are now proudly displayed at the orphanage housing. You can view a short video of the workshop here.
Martin once told me, “Orphans are often the receivers of goodwill and seen as helpless. Through YPU, orphans don’t only take, they can also even give back, by inspiring.”
And it’s true. Not only are guests and visitors an inspiration to the students, the students’ strong determination and love for education are also an inspiration for our guests. Well, I can safely say, IMHO, this place is in the top 10 list of must go places in Jakarta!
(I volunteer in multiple areas at YPU. They do wonderful and valuable work on a lean budget. If you’d like to make a difference, contribute, inspire or be involved in any way, get in touch via the website!)
Two weeks ago, I met with a group of orphanage representatives from Flores, NTT (Nusa Tenggara Timur) region of Indonesia. They have brought over some souvenirs: corn chips made by the orphanage students and a wonderful variety of handicrafts made out of corn husks and fish scales. The handicrafts were exquisite and I was genuinely marvelled at the creativity of humans to reuse “waste” and craft them into such beautiful art pieces.
Food and handicrafts made of recycled products from NTT.
“Come to NTT,” one of them told me, “It’s beautiful, like Switzerland.”
I don’t doubt it; Indonesia’s hidden natural beauty could rival the meadows of Switzerland. As much as I wanted the rest of the world to discover it, I am not sure if the country is ready to take on the responsibility of tourism and the potential destruction to the natural surroundings it could bring if not properly managed.
Jakarta is depressing; the city is polluted, the rivers are clogged with waste and factories lie in the heart of housing areas dumping chemical waste into the seas. I live near the sea, but it is by no means a beautiful sight, contrary to what condominium developers’ grandiose billboards of blue seas with white waves would have you believe. There is neither a beach nor a sidewalk, just a garbage dump of grey, waveless water filled with trash brought in by the current to the shore. In the backdrop, three giant chimneys pump large clouds of grey smoke into the air – the power plant is located right in the heart of my neighborhood, ironic for a place that experiences so many power outages.
The natural beauty of Flores, Indonesia.
The environment has never been seen as an important issue by most of the population, and I think the period of the new order shaped the relatively young nation down a path that places a stronger emphasis on economic development and foreign investments. (We also joke that our Dutch colonials should have set better examples for it seems like British colonies are much more in order).
While I was in Berastagi with Institut Leimena (IL), we were excited to visit Tongging Point where we could see a magnificent view of the Lake Toba. It was with shock when our guide told us the entire place was owned by a Malaysian corporation. WHAT?! (According to the brochure, it is now owned by a Singapore investment company).
I fully understood what that meant when we reached the place. The road leading up to the place was entirely owned by the resort. Heck, they owned the entire mountain. After paying an entrance fee at the gate, we went up the road up to head to Tongging point. They were in the midst of building a Buddhist temple in the one stop resort; which already had several of its own attractions such as a waterfall lodge right by the waterfall, several guest houses and cafes, camping ground by a waterfall a few hours hike away among others. By Tongging Point, there was an amphitheater that overlooks Lake Toba.
A magnificent view of Lake Toba; on a clear day, you can see Samosir Island in the distance
A magnificent view of Lake Toba, North Sumatra; on a clear day, you can see Samosir Island in the distance.
It was a wonderful view; but also staggering to know that NONE of this belongs to Indonesia or benefits the local Karo people in the area. Since the entire road up to the scenery viewing point is privately owned, locals will not be able to sell any products or handicrafts to the tourists.
“It’s funny how we bring so many visitors here, but we don’t get anything in return. We really should stop bringing people here, yet at the same time, it’s the best place to see the view,” Our Karo guide said.
Over hot chocolate, we sat down at one of the relaxing cafe and enjoyed the cool air as we mulled over the entire issue. As our guide started to tell us the pricing for the resort, we were soon exclaiming incredulously, “WHAT?! 5 million Rupiah for one night?! Daylight robbery!”
If tourists were to flock to the surrounding areas, I wonder how it would impact the people. Without environmental awareness, farmers tend to switch to the crop that yields the best income. Despite the fertility of the land, I’m often puzzled at just about how much we still import much of our food from overseas. Organic farming methods is still slow to catch on and farmers still prefer to stick to traditional methods.
In the end, I believe a viable solution for the future is through education and awareness. There is only so much the government can do (not to mention bungle up as they happily sign away lands like the one at Tongging Point with no share of benefits for the locals) , in the end, it all comes down to the initiatives of the community. Through citizenship discussion for example, IL was able to start a mangrove tree planting activity to prevent soil erosion. (I really love this article on the problem of disappearing mangrove trees in Indonesia, do give it a read) I also hope that with better education, farmers can utilize better technology and farming methods while improving their own economy.
Isn't this just adorable? (Made of corn husks).
Looking at Youth Circle in Myanmar, I have always been impressed by how, despite how limited their resources were, they have managed to put the environment in the forefront. (They have resumed their environmental awareness seminars which is paramount with all the foreign investments pouring into Myanmar now, do support them here!)From the perspective of a person from a country that is economically more stable than Myanmar, when their youth talk about the love for their rivers, organic farming training or handmade clothing to reduce carbon footprints; all I could think of is: if they could do it, why can’t we?
My hope truly is that we may have an opportunity to showcase our natural beauty and diverse culture, while still being socially and environmentally responsible.
Indonesia has changed. Sovereignty is now in the hands of the people. And yet many citizens still take the standpoint of choosing not to involve themselves in politics because it’s “dirty”. This mindset is also prevalent in the Batak Karo lands in North Sumatra.
GBKP surrounded by beautiful natural scenery.
A week ago, I went along with Institut Leimena  (IL) to Berastagi to conduct a citizenship education program to members of the GBKP (Batak Karo Protestant Church). These civic education programs have been held in churches in various regions of Indonesia as a start but IL hopes to expand these programs to the public regardless of religion.
As we met with the organizers in Kabanjahe, they explained that many Karo are apathetic about politics and think that good people should not involve themselves in such “dirty” affairs. But as Rev. Erick Barus wisely points out,”If good people stay away from politics, then truly the ‘dirty’ people will come to fill its seats.”
Initially, many of the participants were skeptical about the benefits of citizenship discussion and how regular citizens can have the power to make a difference. The common myth was that one would have to have a high position in government in order to create change.
Through the two day workshop, participants learned about the history of Indonesia and how the power of an idea formed the country as it is today from a Dutch Colony.  They also learned about the  1945 Constitution and its amendments, as well as how to read a draft law. During the workshop, participants broke down specific points in the Halal food law draft.  They showcased their strong analytic skills and voiced their agreement or disagreement by comparing the draft laws against the 1945 Constitution to see if  it was constitutional.
They also learned to put knowledge into action through citizenship discussion. Using discussion materials that can be downloaded off IL’s website, small groups can come together to discuss issues in their community and brainstorm action they can take to resolve them. (In my previous article, I briefly explain how various communities have managed to solve local problems through citizenship discussion.)
Karo lands are very fertile and suitable for growing crops such as corn as well as flowers.
While we were there, some of the problems that were brought to attention was, for example, dying orange trees. We stared in shock at a yard full of blackened dying trees that once produced majestic bright oranges. Oranges are one of the livelihoods of Karo people. If you have ever tasted oranges from Medan, they are all actually grown in places such as Berastagi by the Karo people. The oranges has a light, pleasant sweet smell and are extremly juicy and sweet, but not overpoweringly so. These oranges however, are slowly disappearing as people switch to growing coffee instead. The major problem lies in fruit flies. Once a fruit fly settles on an orange tree, it’s sticky saliva quickly permeates the tree, turning the fruits and slowing killing the tree while spreading to surrounding trees. In a few months, all the trees in the field would die.
A farmer who had expected 40 tonnes of oranges and paid workers to pick the fruits realized to his dismay that his oranges were contaminated and that only 16 tonnes were good. As rotten fruits spread quickly, only 10 tonnes were good by the time they reached the buyers in Jakarta. In frustration, the farmer cut off all his orange trees.
Currently, the farmers build tall nets to protect the trees, but the situation is not improving. It is also not uncommon for fruit farmers to toss rotten trees in their neighbor’s yard, causing the problem to keep spreading amongst neighbors.
A group of young people happily pose for any camera while describing "Aron" to me.
Some Karo lament the loss of their traditional culture of working together and helping one another, called “Aron” in Karo language. In the past, neighbors would help one another to work in the field for no pay except food and water. This spirit of working together is now lost as individuals look after only their own needs. Roads in certain villages for example, contain large potholes that are badly in need of fixing.
“They may have 3 cars and another home in Medan, but nobody cares to come together to fix the roads. They think, that’s the government’s problem, they’ll just wait for the government to fix it.”
Let’s hope that through citizenship education and discussion, the community can inspire those around them to take actions as citizens and perhaps build back the spirit of “Aron”.
I fondly remember my family’s weekend or holiday trips to the Puncak area, a mountaineos region in West Java, just a little past Bogor. Usually a three hours drive away from Jakarta, all our belongings would be stuffed in the trunk while our family of six squeezed in and got cosy.  We would always order two boxes of pizzas from Pizza Hut and enjoy them in the car for lunch.
Puncak during my childhood years.
Along the way, there was the expected traffic, especially on the small two lane road where a bunch of street sellers would be peddling snacks and drinks right to your car window. Then there was the usual, “Are we there yet” as we groan and wonder when we would reach the resort, where we could enjoy the cool weather and fresh air. We would usually take nature walks once we were there and if we were lucky, our parents might let us go horse riding. (It wasn’t cheap by our standards, so it was a real treat when we could.) My favorite part was eating a plate of piping hot Indonesian fried rice on a cold morning or a delicious grilled cob of corn on the cold nights.
On the way back, we would sometimes pass by Taman Safari in Cisarua. My childhood memory of the place is all but faint, since the last time I visited the place as a child was when I was five years old. But it has definitely improved over the years (a surprise since most Indonesian places of attraction only gets older with lack of maintenance and wear and tear over the years) and returning there certainly made me nostalgic of my childhood years.
"What's this strange creature looking at me?" The camel thinks.
I was eager to bring my friend (visiting from Singapore) somewhere outside of the city. We left at about 10am; we hit traffic in central Jakarta area but the road there was relatively smooth and we reached at about 12.30pm. (Without traffic, it might only take an hour).
The entrance fee (85,000 Rupiah per adult plus additional 15,000 per vehicle) wasn’t cheap by Indonesian standard, but from what I see, it pays for the workers and environment and keeps the animals happy, so it was well worth it. The first part of the ride was the safari portion. You basically sit in a car and watch the animals from close distance and some of the animals actually roam around freely and approach the cars that pass by, begging for a snack of carrots. (Of course all the cars are careful to move at the speed of a snail) It was nice to see the animals living in a natural environment and many of the backdrops are actually elaborately created. For example, the lions slept on earthy stone structures with castle ruins in the background, making one feels as if one has gone back in time to the Babylon era.
After seeing more than 20 different kinds of animals, from the Malayan Sun Bear to the Barbary Sheep, we exited the Safari area and arrived at the amusement park portion of the Safari . The whole park makes use and retains a lot of its natural habitat, so it follows the original hill it was built on and all the attractions are spread out uphill. At the base are several restaurants and mini rides for children, photo booths and elephant rides. As you go uphill,  there is a water park (which we didn’t visit, but there are a lot of slides). Since we were in the mountain regions, the weather was cool and not really suited for swimming, but in June it should be warmer. There are also a crocodile park, komodo dragon park, penguin pool, a primate center and many other animals parks as you keep going uphill. To top it all of, at the very peak of the park is the Jaksa Waterfall.  As a waterfall lover, this is just the best all-in-one park where I not only get to see animals of all kinds, there’s a bonus waterfall!
Warm fresh milk, comes in plain, vanilla, chocolate and strawberry. yum.
One of the best things about being home is the food. There is such a wide variety of Indonesian food I’m always in for a treat.  It’s quite strange no matter how hard they try, Indonesian restaurants overseas cannot seem to quite replicate the rich flavors you find locally.
Gado gado eaterySo, the hungry pair (my dad and I) went out for some Gado-Gado after our hospital visit. If you’ve never had Gado-gado, you can call it an Indonesian salad of sort. It’s a mixture of cooked and raw vegetables such as kang kong, bean sprouts, lettuce, along with tofu and eggs topped with a spicy peanut sauce and kerupuk (prawn crackers). There’s a little eatery famous for its Gado-Gado near our place and when we got there it was crowded.
The place is quaint and old-fashioned, and even though it was not air-conditioned, no one seemed to mind. While I was there, I picked some some “Penyek”, a crispy cracker with peanuts. This place has one of the best Penyek I’ve ever eaten. It’s light, crispy and very fresh.
While waiting for our food, I went outside to chat with some of the street vendors. Parked right outside was a bright pink cart containing “Tahu Gejrot”. Tahu Gejrot is a sour tofu (beancurd) with a spicy sweet and sour paste. The vendor usually uses a pestle to grind the paste ingredients on the spot and then adds the tofu in.
Tahu GejrotI just love brightly colored street carts. It makes such great photo fodders and of course, I was already taking out my camera trying to snap a picture. The vendor was more than happy to pose for me, in fact, he kept asking me to take more pictures. When I went to approach other street vendors, he even told them to pose for me.
When the “Tapei” man came carrying his goods on his back, the Tahu Gejrot vendor happily told me, “That guy is already 70! And look at him, he can still carry so many things.”
Tapei is fermented cassava with a sweet alcoholic taste. I’m not a big fan of it, although my dad loves it. But hey, street food is awesome. Just be careful where you buy it, some places might give you a stomachache. I remember an incident where my three siblings and a friend ventured to a street food stall that we knew weren’t so reputable. Needless to say, all of us visited the toilets multiple times later, but we also agreed, it was the best damn street food we ever had. Sadly, we’re not going back, at least for a while.
The class was silent as they looked at the orphanage director and myself sitting in front of the classroom.
Posing for a photo and lots of hugs to come.
“Kak Bel is leaving the orphanage,” Martin, the orphanage director announced.
The kids cried out in shock and dismay. Some had already known because I had already told them. I took the time to give them a short speech to motivate them to keep going after their goals and dreams. After a ton of hugs and answering whatever burning questions they had, I left.
And with that, I closed yet another chapter in my life. I knew it wouldn’t last forever and by no means would I ever be completely separated from the orphanage. It will always be there, a thought, an e-mail, a visit away.
I knew what I had to do next. It was time to focus – on myself. It is by no means selfish, but necessary. As a friend always told me, “You can’t live on sunshine forever.” One needs bread to eat, shelter over one’s head, something tucked away for a rainy day, and a little luxury to brighten one’s day. It was time to pursue a career and my future goals.
Still went selling kerupuk door to door on the afternoon I left. We managed to sell everything.
As I prepared myself back into the corporate world, I realized that many friends were already much farther ahead with the head start they got. But did I regret the things that I’ve done? Did I regret leaving a job I didn’t particularly care for to travel, volunteer, seek meaning in life and meet a ton of wonderful people and grew much more than I possibly ever could in such a short span of time? I think the answer is clear.
Instead of just chucking these experiences aside as, “Ah those wonderful memories,” I want to keep them with me, as part of my personality. I would like, if possible, to still hang on to this positivity and spirit. That despite all the weariness and trouble in the world, we would still take the time to care and love in whatever way we can. I still dream for everyone to be able to pursue their own happiness and maximize their own potential so that the community we live in may be a better one.
Call it naivety in a cynical world. Don’t we all need a bit of that?
Ani, 46, was raised in an orphanage, and now she is back, to send her own son there.
“I have no choice,” Ani explained, “My husband passed away and I simply can’t afford to provide for my son, much less his education.”
Situations like this are not uncommon in Indonesia, where 21 million people still live below the poverty line. Martinus Gea, 43, however, believes that there is a solution. In fact, he intends to transform 10,000 orphans into entrepreneurs.
“Traditional orphanages are sustaining a vicious poverty cycle where generations of children are raised by orphanages. We need to end this poverty cycle and stop marketing pity and poverty. We need to focus on the future and we can do this through quality education,” said Gea.
The students apprenticing at a garment factory and learning about materials.
He founded Yayasan Prima Unggul (YPU), a non-profit entrepreneurship high school for orphans in February 2011. With firsthand experience growing up in an orphanage, Martin explained that an orphan’s mindset often inhibits them from success and one of YPU’s aim is thus to empower orphans.
“Everything we have, we received from others,” Gea explained, “We were dependent on others’ goodwill and always saw ourselves as powerless. We didn’t know we had it in us to do something big.”
YPU students undergo an entrepreneurship based practical education that equips them not only for success in their own lives, but also gives them a chance to contribute to society. Students run several small business units within the school, and the profits contribute to about 20% of the total operational cost to run the school and care for the students’ daily needs.
“YPU made me more independent and self-confident. I picked up many new skills by apprenticing at different companies,” YPU student, Andhika Kristian, 15, said, “I feel that I can take my skills back to my hometown and start a business after I graduate.”
Students also contribute to society by holding low-cost Mathematics and Sciences courses for elementary school children in the neighborhood.
“I’m really happy to be guiding these students,” 16 years old Maria Densiana said, “My leadership and training skills are also improving.”
While the organization is still highly reliant on donations, Gea hopes that in 5 years’ time, the school can depend on itself and spread the self-sustainable model throughout Indonesia.
“If you think orphans have nothing to give, think again. Our orphans are determined to inspire and give to society. They’re the new donors.”
Note: I first wrote this article as a press release for Yayasan Prima Unggul. I do not profit in any way from YPU. I am neither a salaried nor commissioned employee. I am merely a volunteer who strongly believes this is the right direction to go for orphanages and would like in every way to contribute to the process. Help the organization be self-sustainable so it can cease relying solely on donations.  STOP the marketing of PITY and POVERTY. It’s time for empowerment!
I like simplicity. But that doesn’t mean I don’t like material comforts. Of course I do. I like the smell of magazines and books. I like a nice comfortable home, cool air on a hot day, warm toasty feet on a cold day. I like gadgets that make life simpler. I like truffle fries, a nice glass of beer and quality cheese pizza and a group of friends to share them with.
And there isn’t any of that that doesn’t require something called money.
I’ve recently dedicated more time to the orphanage school – Yayasan Prima Unggul. I stay there for a few days every week, teaching and doing marketing. And I love it, I truly do. The highlights of my week are there; from waking up in the morning seeing the kids right away to practicing Karate with them during their class.
Because of that, I’ve rejected even more interview offers and additional paying side teaching jobs. I’m even giving up a road trip around the US.
Let’s be realistic, I’m no saint. I don’t volunteer for the sake of volunteering. Most of my friends probably have more compassion than I do. I do look at the value of the things I do, and honestly, while it doesn’t pay, I love every moment of my volunteer work, I believe I am learning a lot from it and growing myself, and I wholeheartedly believe it has a great impact – so I’m not working for nothing in that sense.
And it’s only at times like this when you learn the true value of giving. If you have plenty of something, giving wouldn’t be such a difficult thing now would it? True giving lies in having limited resources and still sharing them. That includes one’s time and money. And it’s the one that gives you real joy, trust me.
Everyone has their own difficult situations. For me, opening my wallet is usually always accompanied with great reluctance. Switching out chocolate milkshake for plain water puts a little frowny face in my brain, but then buying it for someone else to enjoy about puts ten smiley faces in its place.
“I’m so traumatized by English lessons.”
The statement came from 16 year old Cekly on the ride to my home from Yayasan Prima Unggul. I have only recently started teaching English on top of the marketing and website work I was already doing and was alarmed by what I had done that would make her feel that way.
It turned out that she was relating her past experiences with the language and was not referring to my class (phew!)
“I have been learning only the present simple tense since I was 10,” Cekly explained, “My teacher just gave us a long formula to follow and told us to make sentences. It was horrible and I couldn’t understand anything. He couldn’t even speak much English himself.”
While Cekly is making good progress and is highly motivated in her English class now, it made me think about the low quality education she received in the past. It was exactly the sort of problems Martin saw in the orphanages he managed or maybe even the one he grew up in.
He told me he wanted to start Yayasan Prima Unggul because the low quality education orphans receive at the orphanages simply means they can only get mediocre jobs when they enter the real world. In the end they are no richer than when they entered the orphanage. Worse, they have been so priviliged in the orphanages, receiving all their basic needs that they have no idea how to sustain themselves when they’re grown up.
Martin emphasized the need for qualified teachers and also entrepreneurship mainly because the latter empowered the students. It made them more than just powerless orphans – They have had the power to determine their own future.
Cekly is all smiles for the camera.
Cekly’s statement motivated me to work even harder because these students are so eager to learn, be it in the businesses they are currently managing within the orphanage school or their school work.
My worry is always about funding naturally. Can we afford good teachers? Can our small organization keep growing so our students can keep growing?
But it’s good to be positive. We are all working so hard and our student-run businesses can cover 20% of our operating costs.Yesterday, Cekly and Rona came back beaming with pride after selling all the Dawet Ireng (Indonesian dessert drink). Instead of choosing comfort and staying put at one place, they took the initiative to go around town to reach more people.  I’m really SUPER PROUD of all my students.
A short poem written by Cekly after minor editing (who is prone to a little melancholic melodrama).
To support our orphans’ future, do consider contributing via our website: Yayasan Prima Unggul. Remember, you don’t have to be rich to give just a little.
Yayasan Prima Unggul is a non-profit entrepreneurship high school for orphans. We hope to become self-sustainable in 5 years time. In the meantime,we are still 80% dependent on donations to keep growing. Can you help us?
“We’re sorry. The service is not yet available in your country.”
It is not uncommon to find many Southeast Asian countries not listed within the services areas of large western corporations.
Growing up, what we call the West, or regions that we have traditionally viewed as prosperous – USA and Europe, has always been a source of inspiration to me. Everything just seems possible there; all kinds of services are available and opportunities seem to always be plentiful.
Our region is not exactly the pioneer of innovation or creativity. We have a shared history of violence, ongoing poverty and an ingrained value of working hard for a living. Aside from the handful of tycoons that dominate Southeast Asian industry, the rest are workers that often feel powerless and are subject to the whims of the ones in power.
But I see the beginning of a change, I see Southeast Asian starting to take the initiative to bring about the change and BE the change. While traditionally we see the image of the white man helping the weak in Southeast Asia, local initiatives to help their societies are growing and getting stronger, especially within the youth community. Yes, we need all the assistance we can get, but wouldn’t it be much better if the spark came from within?
That is my hope for the future of the region; that we may stand up and be strong through our own initiative while still not neglecting the co-operation with our neighbors; that we may provide services useful to our region, through our own innovation; that we can create improvement within our society through our own efforts.
Participants from the 2012 media camp held in the Philippines. Many of them are working in NGOs within their country. 
Along that line, it is time our collective voices to be heard. Beyond the cheap travel and friendly locals typically known to Southeast Asia, each person has their own stories and struggles to tell. They have causes and values they want to fight for.
This was the reason we, the youth of Southeast Asia, started SEA Youth Say So. We are ready to speak out, are you ready to listen?
SEA Youth Say So is run by people who have way too much things going on in their lives and volunteer too much but still fights to keep the website functional and running. Support us by reading and sharing our articles, contributing your opinions, and if you have extra cash lying around and are somehow inspired to help us grow, contact us to make a donation to offset the maintenance costs. 
A little panic sets in. I’ve just returned from the Philippines, straight after Thailand and Singapore, which means I’ve been away for two months. I haven’t stopped thinking about how to make a living or whether I can even manage at all with the low amount in which everything is paid in Indonesia and the high amount of daily living costs in Jakarta.
Artwork for sale by Yayasan Prima Unggul students.
Off to my orphanage entrepreneurship high school, as usual, the place changes at alarming (in an amazing way) speed. Just as we talked about, Martin has set up a gallery of the student’s artwork in front of the home. A few of the students have gone to Jogja to learn about the mushroom business, which four months ago, Martin had planned to cultivate in the little space behind the home. The garden has been transformed with a wonderful variety of different plants.
New students will be arriving. A few had already arrived. Budi, the official new marketing person and I sit down to discuss further plans. My work piles again and I’m not even salaried, but the panic has gone. Calm has settled in; I love this; I want to do this; I NEED to do this.
As I hug the students who eagerly came to greet me, I know, while I can’t quell my wanderlust, this is where I belong; this is home. The warmth in my heart tells me so.
Children giggling and laughing. Following the camera everywhere and trying to outdo the rest in face time. These are some of the faces of Kampung Asem (literally: Sour village – due to the sour fruits grown there).
I’ll let the pictures say the rest.
The sad and nostalgic thing about growing older is that you will meet more and more people you care about, some of whom you may not have a chance to encounter again. As one goes through life, going places, connecting with new people, the inevitable has to come – parting.
Fondness and nostalgia sometimes keep me up at night, as I wonder, how all the friends in my life are doing, and how they are right now. I wonder if they’ve changed their unhealthy habits, for I truly wish for them to be around for a long time to come.
I couldn't stand LA traffic in past. Now? After living in Jakarta? WOW HAVE THE ROADS ALWAYS BEEN SO BIG AND SPACIOUS? SO MUCH SPACE, WHY SO FEW CARS?! 
The other night, I couldn’t help but wonder how Joseph is doing. My student from Project Literacy. A jovial and rather round African American grandfather with a loud, hearty laughter and a head of graying short curls. Lugging around his brown battered briefcase as we meet for lessons at Barnes & Nobles on Westside Pavillion at Pico, his eyes would light up and a huge beam will be on his eyes as he saw me. Then we’ll order a coffee as I teach him English grammar and work on his writing – A story involving spies, President Obama and lots of action – the plot which I was made to swear to secrecy in writing because he hopes to convince Oprah to publicize his story when it’s done.
On some days, we’ll take it slow. We go for some donuts and have a good talk as he drives me in his white van with the “Belize” chain hanging on the rear-view mirror. “My parents are from Belize”, he would proudly tell me. Then he would share stories of his 3 year old granddaughter and how he loves her to bits.
I remember our last lunch together. Sitting at the Indian buffet, and both of us going for third and fourth helpings of our favorite gulab jamun. He was still trying desperately to get a job then, having been jobless for a year and about to file for bankruptcy. We would talk about politics a lot, and Obama, Republicans and Democrats and Mexican immigrants. I don’t always agree, but we always have a good discussion anyhows.
It wasn’t always easy. Some days I would feel incredibly jaded. I felt that I couldn’t really be of help; that despite the countless resume we’ve written up for him, the job wasn’t forthcoming. Somedays his troubles became mine, and with other school and life burdens, it started to get to my emotions.
General photo of LA scenery because Ay! I just realized we never took a picture together! Why oh why?  :( 
He was sad that I was leaving. I told him not to give up. It was so nostalgic. It seemed just like yesterday when I was sharing with him that I was going to the Thai-Burmese border to teach. He told me to be careful.
A few days before I left, I gave him a call. He told me he got a job doing valet parking. Some days the tips were good, some days bad. I was happy for him but a little sad. He’s always trying so hard. His expertise was carpentry and construction and he has kept on taking classes and courses and certificates after certificates to improve himself so he can get a job. He would sit through the rush hour traffic driving from East Central LA to West LA to have English lessons with me since I couldn’t drive. Each time he came, he would show me – Look I got a new certificate in OSHA. Or plumbing. Or should I take this class for electricians?
I hope he’s well now. Is he still taking sleeping pills so he can sleep every night? I keep telling him to cut down on his sugars and coffee. I worry for him, because popping pills everyday can’t be safe. But I wouldn’t know, I haven’t been able to get in touch with him. I’ve taught him to use e-mail and created an account for him, but he hadn’t taken very well to it. And he constantly changes his number.
I wonder if I’ll see him again. I hope someday I can still look him up and say: “Hey, we never went to eat at any real good Southern food place. You said we would.”
The first few verses of the Beatles song “In My Life” pretty much sums up the feeling of the meanderings, meetings and partings of life.
“Just do it! Start something! Even if it’s not perfect.”
I heard these words of advice while I was visiting Drum Publications in Kanchanaburi, Thailand, where some of my friends are working at. Drum Publications publishes Karen and Burmese language books and dictionaries and is “an independent Karen community based organization dedicated to promoting education and preserving the cultures of the peoples of Burma”. 
My Karen dictionary. i really need to start learning the language once I find the time.
That’s when I met Tim and was inspired by the story of Drum Publication’s growth.
“We didn’t know anything about publishing dictionaries, but we felt it was the right way to go, so we just did it.” Tim explained as he excitedly showed me recent classification systems he had painstakingly devised for the new edition they were in the process of compiling.
Tim said the early years were tumultuous and he was literally writing to and begging all kinds of NGO for grants. Drum has became independent over the years through the sale of its publications, is able to pay its employees local minimum wage and can further focus on providing educational materials to schools within Burma free of charge. Drum Publications is a pioneer in the sense that they can afford to be independent, for most community based organizations are usually community backed.
That wasn’t the first time I’ve heard that advice. Martin of Yayasan Prima Unggul (YPU) too had said the same thing to me. He had no idea how to progress when he first had the idea for YPU, but he knew he needed to start something. “When you have an idea, just take action. If you wait till you have the perfect idea, you’ll never get started.”
I think there’s a reason why Nike’s slogan is so popular. It really does apply to human lives so well and over the past few years, I have been fortunate enough to meet inspiring people who have reiterated the idea to me. My favorite story is the one of the famous landmark – Candi Borobudur in Indonesia. Built in the 9th century in what was estimated to be a construction time of 75 years, the monument has served as an inspiration and awe for both visitors and pilgrims alike.
Sad confession: I haven't been here. But I am planning a trip there this year :) 
Sad confession: I haven't been here. This photo is by my Cambodian friend no less. (WHAT KIND OF INDONESIAN AM I?!) But I am planning a trip there this year.
The message to take away is that you don’t know how many people you will help and inspire in the future. Don’t underestimate what you are doing, writing or any activities you’re involved in because you don’t know that you might be building the next Borobudur. Even the rulers at that time may not realize how many people the structure would later go on to inspire.
In the words of Coach Herman who guest-taught to the students at YPU, “Everyone has their own talents. Instead of trying to be someone else, focus on your strengths. Take action even if you don’t have confidence and improve from there. Don’t say there are no opportunities out there for you, you have to create your own opportunities.”
I’m so glad I have the advice of giants to guide me in the path ahead.
If you’ve always wanted to help the Burmese people, but am not sure how, this is your chance. Many countries have placed sanction on Burma because of the lack of transparency in where the aid money goes. Thus, one of the best way to give aid to Burma or Myanmar is to give to local community based organizations who can contribute directly to communities in need.
Youth Circle is a community based organization in Yangon run by youth. They have been operating since 2008 and has been conducting a variety of training programs and seminars such as a capacity training program to increase the potential of rural and urban youths, as well as conduct organic farming training to villages. You can view a full list of their program on their webpage.
With foreign investments pouring into Burma at an unprecedented rate, regions with high risk of natural disaster face an even greater threat if no special attention is paid to the land and the environment. Since more than 80% of Burmese citizens still depend on the land for their livelihood, the effects of damage to their natural environment could be disastrous. This could be seen from Cyclone Nargis in 2008, where not only were the lives of many lost, those who survived faced extreme poverty from the complete loss of their livelihoods. It is in light of these issues that Youth Circle has organized an environmental awareness seminar and exhibition in seven towns of high risk areas so that they would be better equipped in the protection of the environment.
They have all the resources, trainers, training materials, permissions, places and dates set up. Here’s the problem: They don’t have enough resources to fund them.
Out of seven towns,Youth Circle has only been able to raise enough for two towns thus far. The budget for one town is about 254,000 kyats, that’s about $306 USD. For a working person in the modern world, this amount may not seem like a lot, but it could educate an entire town. The money will go towards the operations of the training, including covering the high transport costs across the relatively undeveloped country. Much of the knowledge and coordination has been given freely and generously by volunteers who work full time for the organization for the betterment of their people. (You can read more about the volunteers’ efforts here).
All they ask is a little of your contribution and for you to respond quickly. The trainings are set for March and April. They really need the funds by then. Will you please help them?
If you’re outside of Myanmar and interested to help in this particular project, visit the DONATE page to donate via paypal (Please do a direct bank transfer instead if you are based in Singapore or Indonesia – Feel free to contact me directly about this if you feel unsure). I will be collecting any international funds and sending it to them via an agent (Thank you donors, first batch already sent to Myanmar). If you are already in Myanmar or planning a visit, please go to their office and help them out directly.
Full details on the seminar and cost breakdowns are on the donate page. Accounting reports will be sent to all donors.
I personally know or have met several members of Youth Circle and am currently in correspondence with them regularly via gtalk and e-mail.
Even if you think this is not for you, please help spread the word. Thank you!
One of the students has gone back to NTT and is in the hospital to treat her lungs. She was already undergoing treatment for it in the past, but had hidden her illness and halted her treatment. Everyone had wondered why her cough didn’t get any better, and that’s when they found out.
It’s really heartbreaking. That a young teenage girl would risk so much, so she could attend a quality education offered by Yayasan Prima Unggul (YPU), an entrepreneurship school for orphans. (I have previously written about them here). I hope and pray that she would recover soon so she can join her classmates again. I remember her so well, since she was one of the girls I first set my eyes upon when I first entered the classroom, with the wide smile on her face.
Learning the tricks of the trade.
The news motivates me to work even harder and I’m really glad I decided to come back so I can dedicate even more time to YPU. For the past few months, much of the work has mostly been virtual, save the few occasions where I managed to squeeze in a few visits to the school and meetings with the director, Martin, when I visited Indonesia. Martin does so much for his students, and he has nearly sold his own home to provide a home for these students, if not for a last minute donor who had provided a temporary housing for the students. I’m just so glad I can work together with him and assist him.
I was the only one posing for the camera. The others decided to look like they're deep in discussion by pretending there's a worm crawling in the air.
Today, some of the students were apprenticing at a mobile card shop where they sold cell phone balance and talk time. It was pretty interesting to learn some of the processes with them. Martin’s 12-year old son, who had volunteered to join in, got to earn his first few thousand rupiahs today. He’ll be selling a lot more top-up cards hopefully and hit his sales target?
Aside from the awkwardness of not being to talk without being in pain (thanks to a stupid gum infection), today has been a long but fruitful day. All the students have grown so much in character in the past few months, it has just been so inspiring to see. I can’t wait to watch them grow even more. More details to be updated in YPU’s website. Much work needs be done.
I came across these comments (see image) while following some tweets by my friend, Kirsten, on the recent debate on the mandatory weekly day off for domestic workers in Singapore. It was quite disgusting for me to see comments such as “Maids are inferior creatures” or not “REAL humans”.
The "Report as offensive" link must be feeling sore from all the clicks.
As a large part of domestic workers in Singapore are Indonesian, I feel personally insulted for my fellow country people and am also grieved by the fact that workers who are looking for better opportunities in Singapore should be treated in that manner. It’s terrible to see news of domestic workers committing suicide over failing their English test or being ill-treated by their employers.
I don’t think this problem occurs in Singapore alone; it has happened in many countries from Saudi Arabia to Malaysia. I find that even in Indonesia, some families treat their maids poorly. Let me focus on Indonesian domestic workers for a bit, since I am much more familiar with them. I’d like to debunk the myth that employers think they are doing their maids a huge favor by hiring them. Please, it’s just a job to them.
Simplicity is the secret to happiness.
In a recent poll, Indonesians has been rated as one of the happiest people in the world. People from the villages live a simple and happy lifestyle. Young women from the villages sometimes venture outside to get some experience and money, with the intention of returning home, getting married and starting a family. Older women also seek outside work to help out their husbands. Working is seen as an alternative by women to staying home and helping out at the house or in the fields. They usually send a part of their wages home to their family, who can use it to buy luxury items such as a television or a cell phone. Otherwise, the family usually lives a stable lifestyle, eating simple self-grown vegetables and other local foods from the villages. (On a side note, families from the villages usually do not put a strong emphasis on higher education. That is both a political and financial issue. )
While some choose to work within the country, many are choosing overseas destination for better pay and also a chance to see the world outside. (General wages in Indonesia is about $100+ USD a month) Being away from their home for probably the first time of their lives, some of them may seem a bit meek or scared at first. Instead of understanding their situation, I find it ridiculous that some employers should treat that weakness of a sign of inferiority.
You don't have to work in the service industry to be extra polite.
In addition, Southeast Asia has a culture of politeness. When speaking to a male stranger in Indonesia, “Mas” or “Pak” is used as a term of reference. “Mba” or “Bu” is used for female. Employers may be unused to this level of politeness and think themselves a somehow superior breed or the masters when they hear the translated version of “Sir” or “Ma’am” spoken by their domestic workers.
Last night, I had a long talk with my former Mba (A term used to refer to young women). Her name is Rum (pronounced ‘room’), so I would call her Mba Rum or Rum . I had not spoken to her in ages and she had called me from her village, dying to speak to me.
“I miss you so much Bel!” She professed in Indonesian.
My mother had brought her to care for me when I was a teenager schooling in Singapore since my mother was often in Indonesia. She would cook and do general cleaning but most times, she was just like a housemate. We spent afternoons taking long walks at grocery stores, drooling at chocolates, shopping and watching movies. I still vividly remember sitting in the living room together on a cold, rainy afternoon and watching “The Day After Tomorrow” and feeling the movie come alive with the cold weather.
Matthew Marsden, whom she lamented her husband wasn't as tall as.
For the next hour, we caught up on each others’ lives on the phone. She now lives in Central Java, about 3 hours away from Semarang. Happily married, she is hoping to have a child sometime soon.
“Do you still have a picture of Matthew Marsden in your wallet?” I asked.
She giggled. She was a huge Matthew Marsden fan. We had seen him in “Helen of Troy” and she obviously went ga-ga and had me print out his pictures and put it in her wallet. I admit we wasted some precious times ogling at movie stars on the computer on some days. Each time she went home for a visit, she would come back with stories and even tell me about boys in the villages (none of whom she married, unfortunately for them).
She went on to recount the past memories we had together, remembering most details better than I did.
“Oh, remember omelette rice?” She asked suddenly.
I had almost forgotten. Omelette rice or omu rice is basically a Japanese dish with rice inside, topped with mayonnaise and tomato sauce (sometimes curry). We once went out to eat some omu rice, I had told Mba Rum that while I liked it very much, but it was too expensive to eat regularly. She told me that it was very simple and she could make it herself. So as a treat, she would sometimes make me omu rice.
I'm practically my brother's unpaid maid when I visit Singapore anyways.
“Don’t wear miniskirts to work” – That seems like an unspoken internal company policy of sorts, but what sort of message and rationale comes across to the public when the parliament itself drafts a rule to ban female staff in the House from wearing “sexy” outfits to work. Somehow, the parliament is convinced that male lawmakers are unable to think properly and solve the country’s problems with all the sexiness around them.
The rule on its own is offensive enough without the House of Representative Speaker Marzuki Alie’s comments: “We know there have been a lot of rape cases and other immoral acts recently, and this is because women aren’t wearing appropriate clothes. Women wearing inappropriate clothes arouse men, so it needs to be stopped. You know what men are like — provocative clothing will make them do things.”
This only adds to the fuel after a controversy surrounding a series of minivan rape cases in Jakarta. Any women who commute would be seriously worried after hearing such news. Instead of alleviating the fears of the public and proposing better solutions and safer public transport, the leaders of the country stepped forward by offering insensitive comments such as this (also insensitive comments by comedians such as Olga): “They must adjust to their surrounding environment so that they don’t provoke people to commit unwanted acts. Imagine if someone on board a mikrolet (minivan) sits wearing a mini-skirt, you would get fidgety.”Fauzi Bowo, Jakarta governor.
Yes, governor, I am sure that those men sitting and waiting inside the minivan had not planned beforehand to rape someone. Please don’t blame your incompetency on women. Indonesia is one of the more conservatively dressed countries in the modern world. Women don’t even wear a bathing suit to the beach or the hot spring, they wear long jeans and T-shirt. Some women don’t even swim and content to watching their husbands and children swim. I can count the number of times I have seen a woman in public wearing a mini skirt in one hand. And even if I do see one, it is usually paired with long pants or leggings underneath.
You can put money in front of a honest man and he will look for the owner who lost it. Find the dishonest man and he will plot to rob someone without thinking twice. The only difference is the law. If the law and better public policies made it harder for the dishonest man to commit crimes, then he will think twice. So dear lawmakers, instead of fantasizing about women in miniskirts so much that you can’t stop your nosebleed and have to propose such a ridiculous law, please start making better laws instead.
Pangeran has written an amazing post on this issue; it is just too brilliant for words. Meanwhile, the House of Representatives are struggling to come up with the definition of proper and improper clothing. Below is a little debate on twitter regarding the issue. It has reached a point where I have decided that when a person’s mind is made up an issue, what’s the point? You can be covered up from head to toe and if your father/brother/friend/stranger decides to rape you and is stronger, they will. So I shall just focus on constructive actions instead. (In the meantime, martial arts classes for women are getting more popular, good thing).
I was surprised to see a young girl lying on the hospital bed. The previous patients we had seen were all in their 70s and up. She looked to be in her early 20s, her skin was fair and her features still child-like.
We were surprised to find out that she was 29, married with a 7 months old baby. Still recovering from dengue fever, she smiled and welcomed us as we spoke with her. My father talked about illness and how while it may be painful, it can sometimes be a blessing as it stops us amidst our busy schedule, gives us rest and also allows us to appreciate those around us and renew one’s faith.
It reminded me of the time where I was so ill I threw up 8 times in one night and my dad tirelessly took care of me. It really was a blessing because I got to be pampered and witness my dad’s love for me. Throughout the conversation, I could see the girl’s eyes slowly starting to water.
Before long, tears started to stream down her eyes and she wiped them away hastily. My father asked her what was wrong. In between sobs,  she explained that she had never been this sick her entire life and she was afraid; afraid that if something happened to her, no one would care for her young baby.
We took her hand, encouraged her and prayed for her recovery and her family. As we handed out the tissue, she blew her nose and smiled, looking visibly more relaxed and relieved.
This is a typical Saturday for my dad, although the stories and patients may be different. For the past 3 years, he has been visiting patients to encourage them and pray for their health. I’m so proud of my dad, he’s always been such an influence and inspiration to my character.
A rare peaceful view in Jakarta from the hospital window.
I love how in the midst of dilemma, we can still look through the internet to see the journeys traversed by those before us and take their advice.
I was reading an inspiring article about a teacher who left the job (s)he loved for a “boring” accounting job. In some ways, I could relate to the idealistic views (s)he had about teaching and the burnout (s)he eventually felt.
I really liked this quote.
It took some painful life lessons and some hard financial times to learn that doing what you love is, in fact, absolutely not the paradigm we need to follow as individuals or a society. Instead, get out there and grab what affords you the most opportunities to be the best overall person you can be.
Your career is just one part of your life. You might not become a much happier person just because you do the work that satisfies you the most.
maslow-pyramid-bigI think in this day and age, there is a lot of pressure for young people to chase after what they love or their so called passion. In the past few years, I took on interesting and vastly different jobs, visiting  place  I never dreamed I would end up in and meeting different people while trying to grasp at this elusive concept of finding one’s passion and happiness.
Only to realize that what I already have and the simple things one often overlooks – love, friendship, family – are really the best things in the world.
In the end, I knew which path to take where I could give more value with my skills and which path would allow me to improve myself as an individual and give even more value to those around me. I don’t think it means that I have given up on chasing my passions or doing what I love, I think it just means chasing it in different forms.
In the end, if we have clear passions, we will find them some way or another even if we don’t take the most direct routes. Like in Maslow’s pyramid, we have to satisfy our basic needs first and find balance in our lives before we can go for something more. That’s what I believe.
Gone are the days we sit idly waiting for something or someone. Now we’re connected all the time and everything demands our attention. It’s easy to get so caught up in work, life, social media that we forget to enjoy simple little things like creativity.
The game characters. We took existing film characters and also made a couple of our own. 
Yesterday, I visited my friend to help her with an assignment for her special needs education course. The assignment was to make a simple maths activity to help special needs children understand basic maths or shapes. We wanted to make something that was fun and not overly complicated and a board game it is!
The last time I made a board game was years ago. It took me a week and I created game pieces from paper pulp and painted them. But since time was a constraint, we made a simple one on drawing paper.
The game premise is simple. Players have to learn to recognize shapes and learn to count by drawing a card from the deck and moving to the nearest shape shown on their card. To make it more interesting, we created starting characters the children could play as using images from the internet. The children can then traverse through the board to reach the princess in the tower. Perils and rewards lie along the way, such as a poison apple or a magic sword.
It's time to color! 
I had forgotten the joys of coloring and outlining with a marker. I felt like a 7 year old again! We hand drew the board and later added in landmarks using images from the internet and giving them names such as “Mushroom Woods”, “Fairy land” etc. We printed the shapes card deck using regular printer paper and cut them.
End result: A beautiful board game, satisfaction and happiness. Hope the kids who get to test out this game would enjoy it!
One of the best things I love about my current lifestyle is the people I get to meet. I’ve met so many wonderful people in the past few months that I wouldn’t otherwise have in my past 9-6 desk bound job. Having accepted a freelance teaching position for late April, I was introduced today to a teacher in her 20s who would familiarize me in the IELTS curriculum so I could teach it later. Her name is Malti.
Red velvet cookies, with a handwritten note full of love.
At first, we just went through the curriculum. Then we stopped for a break and she offered some of her homemade Red Velvet Melting Moments cookies to me. They were a wonderful red topped with powdered sugar, soft and crumbly and just the perfect sweetness. (They taste somewhat like Russian teacakes) I found out that she had started baking as a hobby, and started to take on orders from home with the help of her sister. As orders continue to multiply in numbers over the years, Malti has decided to leave the teaching job in May and invest her time in her venture and her passion.
Being a die-hard dessert and pastry lover, I devoured her story (and the cookies) like a hungry wolf. Her baked goods are sent to the customers with a handwritten note with words of encouragement. She said that some of her customers had written back to tell them they were so touched and encouraged by her notes they had cried. Malti said she baked because she enjoyed doing it and seeing the joy it brings people each time they eat her creation. She has also participated in baking for charitable causes and is interested in social work. However, she believes that charity extends beyond helping the poor and needy. Her customers, for example, may not be impoverished, but they too have many first world problems and loneliness that she believes a sweet delight accompanied by some sweet words could help alleviate.
An extra oven to fill the orders.
When she told me all this, I simply couldn’t believe my ears. It was like I have found someone who have exactly read my heart and poured it out to me in her own words. (Oh, the lovely feeling of finding someone who understands you so well) Unlike me, however, Malti doesn’t actually like sweets, she just enjoys the process of baking. (My self-control, wherefore art thou?)
As if finding someone who bakes, has an interest in helping humans in general, whether their problems are third world or first world wasn’t enough, Malti went on to impress me with all the courageous and inspiring things she has done in the past. She had noticed families living under the highway and decided on one fine day to randomly drop by with 100 packets of food. Along with her driver, she went to the location and only saw one child. So she approached the child and offered him the packet of food. Before long, people came flocking and she got to speak to many of them and find out about how hard life was for them. She had done this a few times before a police officer stopped her because the crowd was obstructing traffic.
A lovely picture of Malti I got off her Facebook, which I sure hope she doesn't mind me posting...
She had also stood up to an education officer in charge of accrediting the school she had worked for. Like any procedures in Indonesia, giving money to officers was the standard if not unsaid official protocol for getting anything done. If money is not procured, you can expect to rot 10 years with no results in your paperwork filing. While she had not directly challenged his corruption, she pointedly asked him if he had heard about the earlier suicide case where a student has killed herself because she had failed the standardized test. “Do you think it’s right that students are killing themselves over test results? Education is so much more than just grades, it is about building character. Education is supposed to improve your lives, not kill you.”
The officer merely shrugged and said there was nothing he could do. She then told him off saying that instead of saying that, he should go up to his supervisors or whoever was in charge and make sure something was not about the education system in Indonesia, if not what was the use of an education board.
I truly applaud her and I’m so glad I met her. The world needs more inspiring and courageous people. And I believe there are a lot of good people in the world and that we all need to work together to be the change we want to see.
I was sitting by the dining table and checking my phone when a “BOOM” sound came from the kitchen. I paused, still rather calm. Loud noises were extraordinarily commonplace in my neighborhood, from the neighbors setting off mini fireworks and setting off car alarms to motorcycle engines giving out loud pops that sounded like firecrackers.
But that…was that an explosion? It certainly sounded like one judging from what I’ve heard in movies. I knew my mom had been in there trying to change the cooking gas cylinder and had asked the driver to help her and my dad was in there as well.
In short, my dad had bought a new valve that allows you to control the pressure (like the ones in restaurants) instead of the generic home use ones because the stove fire had been really small. And while trying to put it in place… well…accidents happen.
I put down my phone and got up, walking to the kitchen which was really just a few steps away from me. My dad was closest to me, standing and staring at the LPG cylinder that stood in the middle of the kitchen. My mom and the driver had retreated to the backyard through the door that the kitchen was connected to. Nothing seemed to be amiss, I didn’t see any fire.
A moment of inaction. Everyone just stood still, panic on their faces.
“What’s wrong?” I said, walking over.
“Don’t come over,” My mom said, “Oh God, what should we do. We’ve been burned. We were all burned.”
No one showed any visible sign of injury from where I stood. So I walked over to the backyard.
The next moment, everyone was in a frenzy trying to put something to soothe their skin. Suddenly my mom was jumping up and down, “It’s so hot, hurry hurry!”
It was only then that I noticed the charred front tips of the hair and singed eyebrows on everyone’s faces. My dad and my driver suffered minor injuries on their arm and both were protected by long pants. My mom had been closest to the stove. Her arms and legs were burning red and there were open blisters on her feet.
It was a day of accidents. Earlier in the morning, my dad had fell down hard after he slipped on a puddle.
By nighttime, his leg hurt so much from the fall he decided to walk around with one crutch. My mom’s legs looked more like two pillars of bubbles as her skin rose in boils from the heat.
As we all sat in the room that night, I wiped my mother’s face, looking at the little strands of burned hair on her forehead, “Man look at your hair.”
“The ends of my beautiful eyebrows are gone,” My dad shouted from the bed, “But at least I got a free hair curl.”
None of their faces had suffered even the slightest injury.
“Look at you guys! One in a crutch, one who can barely move your hands and legs! What a sight!”
“We’re sorry you already have to take care of the old folks so prematurely,” My mom said.
“At least I don’t have to deal with the bowel problems yet!”
We got a good laugh. It was, nothing short to say, a day full of blessing and God’s grace.
One night, in my frustration, I lamented to a friend, “How do you get rich quickly? I want to amass a hell lot of money; there are just so many causes I want to help and I just can’t stand seeing things the way they are.” He laughed and told me something I would never forget.
“It’s all about a change of perspectives to feel contentment,” He said, “One day, I was cheated to no end by someone. My money was gone and I only had 10,000 Rupiah ($1 USD)  in my pocket. And that was the last of my money, mind you. I used it to eat and buy cigarettes and had 3000 Rupiah left.”
I laughed at his composure in handling the situation.
“Then came a beggar. And I gave him that leftover 3000 Rupiah. Because in my opinion, there’s a way out of everything.”
Surprised at the turn of the story, I bid him to continue, “So as a result, I was completely penniless the next two days. But on the third day, my parents pitied me and gave me 20,000 Rupiah.”
“And you turned it to 20 million Rupiah?” I joked, knowing that he now had his own small business.
“Well, the moral really, is that whether you’re helping out others or volunteering, just do whatever you can now. And be grateful that you can do what you are doing and get motivation out of it. Nothing is ever instant. Just think about it, if on that day, I didn’t only have 3000 Rupiah leftover, maybe I wouldn’t have given it to the beggar. I wouldn’t have thought about what it felt like to need something. I might have even gone to the mall and spent my money foolishly, no?”
The story always puts a smile on my face. My friend couldn’t be more correct about changing one’s perspective, like seeing a glass half empty or half full. It reminds me of a story I once heard in a sermon:
A well-off father brought his son to an impoverished rural village to experience staying there for a few days. He wanted his son to realize how difficult being poor was and to learn from the experience so his son would grow up determined to be a rich multimillionaire.
After the stay, the father asked his son on the way home, “Son, what did you think of the experience?”
“It was interesting and fun,” the son replied, much to his father’s surprise. This was not the reaction he had wanted his son to experience.
“What did you learn from it?” The father prodded.
The son thought for a while and finally replied, “I learned that while we have one dog at home, the villagers have four to go hunting with. While we have a small pool back home, they have a whole river to swim in. While we live in a small plot of land, they live in a large free open space surrounded by nature. While we have lights to brighten our garden at night, they have a sky full of stars to brighten theirs. While we have tall gates outside our home to protect us, the villagers work together to protect one another. While we have maids at home to serve us, the villagers live to serve and help one another.”
To add to the father’s dismay, the son finally concluded, “Thanks for bringing me here dad! Thanks for showing me how poor we are compared to these people.”
Now, each time I feel dejected, I just need to remind myself of these stories to feel contentment.
Have you ever gone through the experience where you have so much to do; the stress takes over and you end up doing nothing at all?
For an idealist like myself especially, I am always seeking ways to improve my life, my health, my relationships, productivity, work and so on. And yet there is only so much time and so much effort one can put into anything. The end result is often that I end up dejected and choose to focus on temporary pleasures (read: procrastination) instead of doing what I know really needs to be done. At the end of the day, I end up even more depressed as I realized I have failed all the expectations I set for myself in the first place.
As one of my favorite books in the bible says, “Farmers who wait for perfect weather never plant. If they watch every cloud, they never harvest.” 
Waiting for perfect conditions will mean inactivity. In the end, I realized I needed to change and I’m still slowly going through the change process. Here’s what I’m doing:
It’s okay to lower expectations. In a society that’s always telling us to set high expectations, this seems to be a strange advice. But the fact is, we don’t need everything to be happy, we only need to be content. This doesn’t mean that we can’t be ambitious, go for it, go for the big dreams, but do it one step at a time.
The danger of setting too high an expectation at the start is one ends up feeling overwhelmed.
Make a choice. In keeping with the last point, the way to lower one’s expectations is to make a choice. For example, if I wanted to improve my relationship with my cousin and improve my cooking skills by making lunch but only had time for one. I have to make a choice since I can’t prioritize both at once. Make a choice, and then make peace with yourself over the decision. Be content. Tell yourself, I’m not omniscient and get over it.
Set clear but very achievable goals and these goals should align with your long term goals. So if your 5 year plan is to have a home and your bank account is getting nowhere near, it’s time to start a clear financial goal that’s achievable. It should be concrete with a target deadline such as, “Have $10,000 in my savings account by X Month X Year”.
Write an action plan and set a schedule.
For each and every of your goals, write an action plan. It could start with something as simple as, “speak to a financial planner” or “ask dad about investment”. “Limit shopping to $X a month.” After one action is completed, create new action plans to move your closer to your goals.
To set the motion to your action plans, insert it in your schedule and follow it. So if your goal is to “speak to a financial planner”, set a time and date in your to-do list with “Call financial planner”. If your goal is to learn about the stock market, put “Read about the stock market from 10pm-10.30pm daily” on your daily agenda.
Monitor yourself and hold yourself accountable. In the end, it all boils down to discipline. It won’t always be fun and games and there will be days when you don’t feel like doing anything you planned at all. But stick to your schedule, and make sure you always put in free time to unwind. And the next thing you know, you would be closer to your goals than you’ve ever been, all fully automated.
It was a night of self-introspection, something which I (secretly, well not so secret anymore now) enjoy. During my childhood and teenage years, I could be said to be a dreamer living in my own fantasy dream world. When asked of my ambition as a child, my answers were routine, “I want to be a writer or a singer!”
Write I did. I became engrossed with reading fiction and fantasy novels and writing stories of magical lands and the adventures of five children, whose ages seemed to keep progressing with me as the years went by. When the troubled, emo teenage years came, class hours were spent writing world war 2 fiction and study hours filled with my fascination with the psychology of the totalitarian state of WW2 Germany.
Sing I did. In the bathroom. (I’m still hoping to memorize a Hindi song to sing at the top of some mountain).
Looking back, I am left with one question. What happened to my dreams? What are my dreams really? I have long since stopped writing fiction; I’ve just moved on from it.
I enjoy asking people about their dreams and goals. When I see the future they envision and how they could improve society, I feel so glad for them that when I find out some little obstacle stands in their way, I am immediately motivated to take some action or another to aid in removing that barrier. It is thus, with awkward embarrassment that, when the question is suddenly reversed to me, I find myself speechless at what to answer. The first time it happened, it was a shocking moment for me. All this while I have been asking countless people for their dreams and I somehow haven’t thought to ask myself.
Perhaps, I thought guiltily, the reason I am so eager to help others reach their dreams is because I have none of my own. I thought very hard about it. If I had all the money in the world and could do whatever I pleased, what would I do? I would probably choose to live in different countries several months at a time, befriending the locals, learning the language, getting accustomed with the culture and helping with whatever I can. The thought dismayed me more, my superfluous dream didn’t seem to align with envisioning a “proper” future.
Society has always taught us to dream big and every parents wish for their children to be the brightest star of the group. Similarly, I too aimed to be extraordinary. I wanted to do BIG things (whatever they may be) and make a BIG difference, partly also because I like the excitement and I get bored easily. While I don’t deny the empowering benefits of having such mentality and the importance of having goals, lately I’ve begun to appreciate the simplicity of being ordinary; and that behind every extraordinary person in the world, there needs to be the backstage crew who does the hidden work. I’ve begun to stop caring about whether or not I find this “dream” of mine. Whether or not I get on the right career track to get there. Maybe I don’t have a solid ambition like some people, but I do know I enjoy serving. But I’ve learned with everything, there needs to be responsibility and sensibility. (thus still working out ideas to become a better family-contributor and self sufficient server).
I’ve also realized something about dreams. When my friend first shared of his dream to be an architect, I thought what an admirable solid ambition. He wanted to contribute to his country, and help shape the landscape while still preserving traditional elements. Since there were not much opportunities to study that in Myanmar, my thoughts hastily went to: You have to get a scholarship abroad! Then get some work experience. Then return to your country, build your country’s landscape. Guide other aspiring architects etc.
I sent him all kinds of scholarship applications and even wrote to architecture schools to see if they have a scholarship available. And then one day, he told me he was building a mud house for a village.
“I feel so happy,” He said, “It is great work for me and the community can dream to live in a safe house. They also offered me to design another school building.”
Then it hit me that he was already slowly realizing his dreams. Of course he is capable of more, but here’s someone who wants to help his people, pursue his love for architecture, and build his country. I can’t deny that he’s currently living his dream, no?
I recently went for an interview to take a teaching English course in South Jakarta. It took 2 (and sometimes 2 and a half hours) to get to, and I decided that since the course would be intensive and full time,  it would be better to stay in a hostel near the center. Upon breaking the news to my mother, her answer was a vehement no.
Most food from established places are safe. Some street food aren't bad either. Either way, please continue to enjoy ultra delicious bakso.
At first, her reason was that eating street food would be unsafe for me, especially since several street vendors still put formaldehyde in their food to make it last longer. Noodles are not out of the equation either as unsafe food coloring is often used. This is a common knowledge and is still happening. “Makes the food really chewy,” as one lady told me, “I know they put in formaldehyde, but well, I still eat them occasionally.” (My mom is quick to tell me the horror stories of the “bakso” – fishball seller family and their maid who all died eating the leftover food they sell).
But the reason that finally dominated was that it was dangerous for a girl to live out there on her own. “You will get raped and killed” was the brief summary.
While there are reasons to be cautious about safety in Indonesia, I think it really depends on the location. From what I have seen, I judged the place to be safe and was in fact looking forward to living there. So I tried to reason to my mom that many expats were taking the same course and some also stayed at the surrounding hostels with no problem.
“It might be alright for expats. But we’re Chinese Indonesians, and as a young Chinese Indonesian girl, you are not safe.” came the reply.
Funny how my family let me run off to the jungles but not let me stay here.
I finally got my friend from Singapore to interview for the course as well, thinking that perhaps, two girls living in a hostel would be better than one. Her mother, a Chinese Indonesian who married a Singaporean and has lived in Singapore for many years, objected immediately for the same reason.
My friend told me it didn’t matter that the hostel was in a guarded complex and right behind the school. The moment her parents heard the words “living in Jakarta”, they objected. Historically and even now, most Chinese Indonesians still live in separate communities from other Indonesians. They tend to go to different schools, different shopping malls, different places of worship etc. Since Chinese language is no longer banned, Chinese Indonesian parents are starting to send their children to learn Chinese in the many Chinese language centers that have opened up. Lunar New Year is also a national holiday in Indonesia.
I wonder if we are still living the effects of the horror of the May 1998 riots. Especially for people of my parents’ generation, who vividly remember the incident and feeling terrified for the safety of their children, I can understand their fear and worry.
“I’ve experienced so many terrible things and had once ran away from the country,” my friend’s mother explained, “It’s so ridiculous why my daughter would want to go and live there.”
An ever present reminder of the riots, these jarring green gates were not an element of my childhood years. Large gates like these can be seen on every street in Chinese communities, built after the riots.
I was ten when the riots occurred, safely hidden away in Singapore. But I never forgot the stories, since many of the horrors happened right in my home community. My parents would tell me how the doors of Chinese Indonesian homes were marked as an indication that rioters should loot and burn that home. How my childhood friend’s father had been dragged away from his car and beaten to death. How my parents’ long time friend had to hide for 48 hours in a dark cellar while rioters looted the house. And then there were the endless stories of brutal gang rapes that still make me shiver to think about.
My brother’s fiancee had been visiting Jakarta at that time and she said it was the most frightening experience of her life: “There was fire everywhere, we were in the car trying to find a way out and luckily the guard showed us an alternative route to escape.”
Even with all the progress, many Chinese Indonesians still fear a similar incident happening, especially in the face of an economic downturn. I don’t deny the opulence of some Chinese. I would actually bring friends to certain neighborhoods to let them see “houses that are so big your jaws would drop”. It really doesn’t help that many of them also engage in frivolous parties and lavish gatherings, when more could be done to help the communities around.
My students from the orphanage school. Many ethnic groups, one vision.
If I was a first-hand witness of the riots like the others, perhaps I would not be so carefree in my decision of living on my own in the city. Ultimately, I can understand my parents’ fear, but at the same time, I do want to feel a sense of belonging in this country, not just constant wariness and fear. I badly want to be recognized as not just a Chinese Indonesian, but an Indonesian. It is a fact that we still do look distinctively different from the others. While I may be darker skinned than most of my Chinese Singaporean friends, I am still “too white” in Indonesia and people can easily identify me as Chinese.
I guess in the end, I still want to be recognized as just part of another ethnic minority group in Indonesia, not an outsider. It still irks me some days when I venture to a non Chinese area and people start to stare because it is odd to see one of my kinds in those parts. Or when I venture to tourists areas and locals speak Chinese to me, assuming I am a tourist. Of course, I can hardly blame them, but most days I do just wish they would see me as I am. I was born in this country, I still care for the welfare of this country and while I naturally care about the welfare of many countries as part of the bond of humanity, this one’s always just an extra bit more special.
All my bags are packed. I’m just bringing a few pieces of clothings, my battered old laptop and my ukulele. I suppose I’m starting again by going back to the city of bad traffic, but also my home – Jakarta.
Hopping on TIger Airways. They have cheap tickets from Singapore to Indonesia.
I’m not sure what lies ahead. I still wake up thinking, oh man, I’m voluntarily unemployed and living off a miserly savings. I feel really fortunate in a way, that I am able to even take this step. I know too many people where this option isn’t even possible.
I don’t think everyday life will be exciting or one big vacation (and it’s not like I have enough $$ to go on crazy vacations). Of course, I hope to be chronicling my activities so I can look back at everything. I want it to be worthwhile and meaningful. I don’t need to save the world or anything, I just want to impact people in my own ways, no matter how small.
On a side note, I’m posting this as I’m back in Indonesia. I honestly thought it would only take me 5 minutes tops to post a blog, and it took me 20 minutes to open an e-mail. Hooray land of slow internet! (Most days the internet is a lot better though) But ah, it’s still good to be home. 
I’m not the same person I was a few years ago. I was painfully shy, a loner, private, lacking in self-esteem, and more often than not, depressed. Thankfully, I did not lose all hope.
I ended up volunteer-teaching in the Burmese jungle teaching English to Karen (lovely ethnic group!) youths. I grew to love the simple village lifestyle and learned about friendship and smiling despite hardship.
I returned vowing to do more with my life. I left my job in 2011 to attend a youth program in Thailand where I met a group of motivated Southeast Asian youths and activists. We started SEA Youth Say So, a website for Southeast Asian youths. I went on to meet a lot more wonderful people from all over Asia during my travels.
I started volunteering at Yayasan Prima Unggul, a non-profit entrepreneurship high school for orphans late 2011. I lived at the orphanage to carry out marketing and PR work and teach English. In between, I continued to travel, making more friends and picking up random Karen words like “you crazy man”.
Aside from small side jobs, I didn’t earn a single cent. I was fueled by vision. The great thing about this vision is that it’s a vision for self-sustainability. So I know it’s a work once = reap for a lifetime formula. I like that. Every non-profit should have that goal.
Over time, I’ve realized it’s good to have a combination of both idealism and realism. I’ve decided to return to the working world, but in no way will the journey end in that sense. Except now, the journey is confined to the mind and small but conscious efforts rather than just throwing everything away and living on sunshine.
I’m a bit of an idealist. I like to analyze things and situations and find out the best way to do things. I love personal development, people and cultures, marketing and entrepreneurship. Being such a private person in the past, having a public blog was a huge step for me.  But at the same time, I just wanted to express myself and share my stories in the hope that whoever reads this may be inspired to find their own purpose and happiness in the world. That they may be able to maximize their potential and make the world we live in a kinder, better, happier place.
Don’t forget to check out Yayasan Prima Unggul, a wonderful initiative to break the poverty cycle in orphanages through entrepreneurship.
