Yup I'm an ambivert too and I have said exactly what you said, why the f do I crave and need people when I get tired and sapped when I'm with them.
What I do see from your post is a lot of self criticism. I do that a lot too but it's not going to help make you more at ease talking to others. Made an inappropriate joke? Don't think about it. Half the time people are more worried about how they speak and themselves and not so much about you. And maybe you just haven't met the right bunch of people but don't give up.
And try joining board games activities. I find there's not too much pressure to talk but you still get the company of others. I also join classes and stuff so I can get human contact without having to socialize too much. When you spend time with a group of people constantly, you become familiar to them just through time spent doing the same activity and maybe you'll feel less judged.
I know it's hard, I've been through something similar before.
The first thing is to just stop focusing on the fact that you're alone. It's hard because it hits you in the face everyday, but be ok wth the feeling. Just acknowledge it but don't indulge in the negativity of it. I'm alone, I don't feel ok about it, and it's okay to feel that way.
Then stop trying to be someone else. Force yourself only to a level you're capable of handling. For me, I just made myself go out and I don't try to be extroverted or be someone I'm not unless I feel up to it that day. Think about your identity this way. You're mostly introverted but in some days you do feel like an extrovert, so wait till those days to go out and meet people and retreat the moment you tire. There's nothing wrong with it. It's not wearing a mask, it's all part of you.
It took a while but I eventually found people I could hang out with where they let me be myself. I'm quiet most of the time in the group and just enjoy their presence and they're fine with it.
I had to go out of my comfort zone a bit though and kept asking to join them even though I felt I had nothing to contribute to the group. They were a nice bunch anyways.
You don't have to overcompensate for your wife. Support is good, overcompensating at your expense is not. She has to be responsible for her own issues as well.
Ultimately, things are not great for you now, but that's ok. Have hope, do things a bit at a time, push yourself at a pace you're capable of handling and don't push yourself too hard.
I hope you find solace for this. It's good that you're starting therapy. virtual hug.
Can you live with your parents? It may suck but at least it's free and solves the rent problem for now.
And yeah try explaining the situation to your boss and see if you can get your old job back and in the meantime look for a new job.
As long as you have a roof over your head and food, you can fix the rest later. Think the mantra: one thing at a time. If you try to think too far ahead, your mind will freeze up.
Yeah I'm usually ok if the environment around me is good, it's usually when it isn't that I start feeling trapped and not being able to see the positivity in things and trying to understand and analyze everything instead of accepting sometimes, I just got to make hard decisions for my own sake.
Thanks for sharing!
Oh dear, sorry to hear that. Seems like you've gone done a path further than even me.
Well, my head is clear today and I guess deep down I know the solution. As the other commentors mentioned, there's perfectionism, self esteem and mindfulness, I boil it down to: (at least for myself) 1) a fear / inability to deal with consequences thus the need to fix/optimize/think one's way to get the best possible results.
For example, I often fear criticisms from others, I particularly can't handle anger. It makes me so nervous when my loved ones are angry with me I do everything in my power to avoid it, make them happy at my own expense or try to change them (futile). The frustration makes me ruminate.
I often think, changing yourself means change yourself to fit the situation, in this case, please the other person since you can't change them and only yourself. But that's not right.
I need to change myself in a way I truly desire and be able to deal with the consequences. That could mean being honest with myself and saying, so and so sucks, I don't want to deal wth them anymore and I will not feel guilty for it because it's what's good for me. Then cut them off and distract yourself like crazy till they're a past memory.
Or, my job has good perks but my boss is a ratass. What do I do? If the pros outweigh the con, then I'll find new ways to deal with the boss such as learning to be diplomatic (always good to learn a new skill) but if it comes down to, I don't want to be diplomatic, forget it. Just fight with your boss lol. Ultimately if they value you overall, they won't fire you. If they fire you, move on, their loss.
I guess in summary, always wanting to do what is right and proper even if it's not what your really want never works. I think the first step is to accept. I'm not very nice today, but that's ok, I'm usually nice. I'm not very good at doing x, but that's ok, I'm good at y and I can learn to do x if I want to but I don't have to force myself if I don't want to.
I guess I have a fixed mindset of who I am. Like, that's not me, I like harmony and don't get angry. That's not me, I must accomplish x,y and z. I'm trying now to have a more fluid mindset, I find it very helpful to deal with consequences. Not to what others want, but really looking at myself and what I want and what I can accept at this point in time but at the same time being more open minded about my own demands.
Yesterday, I got angry at a critical person whom I know really cared about me, but I got sick of their critical nature. So I scolded them. Usually I would bash myself up for doing that, I would think, that's not loving or harmonious or accepting. Then I would blame him for causing such a reaction in me. But the inner me would go, but you're angry and it's not that you don't accept them, it's that you have emotions. I let my anger go and found that, hey, it's ok. It only lasts a while, this person doesn't mind. He gets angry back and then forgets it and I can do the same. Because ultimately, everyone is different. We'll always step on each other's toes because we don't understand each other and make a ton of mistakes, and that's ok.
Find people who love you, the ones that stick around despite all your differences and misunderstanding. Be open minded to the different ways people care about you, even if it doesn't feel like love, look at their intentions.
I've always thought my family was dysfunctional since we quarreled a lot and fought a lot. They were loud and I didn't like it and wanted constant harmony in my life. Now I realize, there's no one correct way. That they're different people who express themselves differently and may not always love me the way I want them to love me. But they've always been there for me.
Anyways this is long and I'm starting to ramble, but in general, I find that even if you think you are being accepting of yourself or others, it's usually often not the case of true acceptance, it's a forced one that's often rooted within self victimization. When you can finally go, I'm inadequate and that's ok (and truly not feeling any blame towards yourself), I think that's the first step.
Anyways don't analyze too much (I'm trying to tell myself the same thing) and maybe we both should stay off the Internet lol doing real world stuff always help.
Yeah I volunteer a ton, sometimes too much. I naturally enjoy helping other, but often feel like I'm helping people as an escape but find it hard to do things for myself.
Thanks for bothering and checking the other posts. I actually wrote an update but it hasn't been approved.
I suppose I no longer desire to change him and when I did that, he listened. In the past, I tried to change his mindset, that's it's wrong and socially unacceptable to do x, y or z. Now I have such a good understanding of how his mind works I stop resisting how unacceptable it is and just focus on the fact that he cares about me and how we can work better with each other without me twisting like a pretzel. I position how this is me, I'm already trying my best, you're hurting me, he stops/does whatever I request. He finds it really hard to understand/agree with my mindset, but he follows because I asked.
We've also written how we could work better, for example he'll work on his anger and trying to see other's perspectives (a lot of the things he says are out of anger and he forgets once it dissapates) and I'll react less to his anger. I do see us working now if I can forgive his past actions and if I suffer no more anxiety in the next few weeks or so, we're good and if I still do, we'll break up.
He's not normal by any sense, he might most definitively be broken. I mean he could be sociopathic really because of his inability to see the perspective of others easily. I know very clearly though he doesn't mean to hurt me, I guess it's hard to explain through just words. I know that he cares, and will genuinely take steps to make me happy if he knows what to do. The reason why I wrote this is because I'm checking in on my feelings a lot (which I chose to ignore in the past) and if I'm truly happy after this resolution we've come to and can truly forgive him for past actions, and make sure I'm not twisting myself into a pretzel to fit him, then I suppose we're good.
I've also had a lot of chances to leave him, and I know full well I can get another "better" guy quite easily. There's no lack of options.
At the end of the day there are a lot of things I appreciate about him. I suppose logically I could find someone similar without all the negative points but I keep wondering why I'm not. I'm actually really happy with him when we don't have all the fights which, I foresee may happen with less frequency now.
I guess I see it as falling in love with someone who has an illness for example. At first it may be out of pity, then you resent them because they inconvenience your life then finally you accept who they are and for what it's worth, they truly care about you and you can't fault that. Now you only have to examine if you're happy with them and love them back the same way. (I think I do, but past resentment get in the way)
Tldr: I'm not trying to change him anymore and I see him for what he is better and if I'm still not happy in the next few weeks, I'll accept we can't work and break up.
I guess if you're a trusting person, your gf could be afraid you don't see Jane is a user and that you'll fall prey to her using. That and all the combined factors you mentioned. So if you can acknowledge it, it might bring your gf some relief (maybe).
Good luck, but I don't think it's an overnight thing. Give your gf some time to come to terms with it and help her see that she must like you because you're a good person who's kind to your friends and how can you abandon a friend in need? Don't make it about Jane, make it about you.
And I think if your gf is a reasonable person, she'll come to accept the compromise. You shouldn't have to do what you feel is wrong as well.
I guess you have to trust Jane is mature enough to think for herself. I know it's not easy.
As for your girlfriend, the best way is to look at her viewpoints from a, what if she is being reasonable (even if she isn't) perspective. She said you failed to see all the times Jane was mean to her. I guess the question is, is it normal for your gf to generally go around disliking people or is she biased because you never stood up for her?
If it's the former, not much you can do and you might have to rethink why your gf is so judgemental. If it's the latter, it could be she's insecure and just needs to hear more reassuring words from you in a manner that she understands. Your gf thinks Jane is a user, and what did you say to that? Did you agree or took Jane's side?
For example, if you agree, you could say ok, I can see Jane doing that, but I guess I accept that, she's my friend. You accept your friends as they are.
Or if you disagree, ok i can see you're upset. Jane's not really like that, but I understand you're upset she did that to you. Find out why she has such a skewed viewpoint of Jane. Make your gf feel heard, don't make it seem like you're trying to defend Jane cos it'll just make her more paranoid.
Maybe your gf just needs to feel more acknowledged by you. Once she feels you're on her side, maybe you can tell her Jane needs help and ask your gf to help her together with you.
I can understand. My boyfriend is like that. He's not happy about taking other's money and finds it an insult. To him, he is a man, and he can earn his own keep and solve his own problems.
He probably feels your gesture emasculates him and you not understanding shows how little you get him. That probably led to his next thought where if you don't get him, you guys probably aren't a good match then since he can't count on you to understand and respect who he is. I don't think it's insecurity per se, a man wants respect and honor.
Obviously, a better way for him to react would be to tell you thanks, but no thanks and explain why. But I guess he just wants you to get him automatically.
I'd say if you can truly understand his POV, communicate your thoughts to him. Tell him you understand why he's upset and you're sorry. Once he accepts your apology, tell him that you are upset too that he called you a brat but you don't blame him because you know he was agitated (but make sure he really gets its not ok to insult you). Also, tell him you're a different person to him and sometimes you may not understand but it's not because you don't want to. If he could explain why it's upset that would really help.
Your girlfriend doesn't like Jane and perhaps she may be immature about her feelings, but if it's not a dealbreaker to you, then you'd have to distance yourself from Jane in a civil manner, treat her more of an acquaintance than friend.
Perhaps your gf would come to see the light when she's older but for now, if you want to keep your girlfriend, that's the only thing to do.
Lol a data scientist will ignore his heart and try to work this out using his head, which really is a strange way to approach relationships. It may be that he really wants to stay with you and isn't listening to his heart because of his fears and decides to rationally work out the problem. Frankly, if he's been happy with you for 3 years in a monogamous relationship, it's probably the idea of the lack of option that scares him.
But, no amount of talking will make him understand that imo. He has to learn it for himself.
I think the best way is to tell him you understand how he feels and he can take as long as he needs and you'll be open to him when he has sorted things out, so you give him the option still because you understand his wavering has nothing to do with you and is just an issue he needs to work out himself. But if you do meet another guy in the meantime, then well, it's not exactly your fault. Of course during this period you can just be like friends and technically has broken up so no hooking up and all that nonsense.
The idea is not to pressure him into making a decision out of fear of losing you but to make a decision because he truly wants you. So you have to convey it in that manner.
I think it's a method that says I respect you and also myself. Ultimately it's up to you if you think this man is worth it.
Rule of thumb: When she likes you back, you're a romantic. When she doesn't, you're a stalker. So you're good :)
I'm actually not in a good emotional state to anymore. I thought taking a break from him to clear my head would help me heal from the hurt he caused, but it's just made me overthink like crazy and rack in an unstable emotional state because I'm still trying to think what I can do and what's wrong and everything.
So I've just been accepting now. Accepting that I don't need to punish myself anymore. Accepting that it's ok, that I've tried enough, I've really tried so hard to the point I'm a ghost of what I was (I've lost hair like mad due to stress from this) It's taking a while, but slowly, slowly. I know I don't blame him so much, but more so myself, so it's really more of me trying to handle it and soothing myself, telling myself it's ok to be sad, it's ok to have emotions, it's ok to feel hurt.
And we have a trip planned, so I'll just enjoy his company for what it is and just think what to do after the trip because I'm just not in the emotional state to be action oriented and the more I try, the harder I'm failing. Lol. So I'm planning letting me be, in its purest sense. And I think I haven't let myself be in a while :)
Yeah, reading your post made me realize I might be triggering his anger recently as I'm becoming more irrational due to tangled feelings. Like he did have issues and I made it worse by first trying to help him, getting hurt by him and then playing the perpetual victim by blaming myself for lack of better ways to handle it.
I alrdy addressed it in another post, so I just need help with my own emotions now :)
Thanks for the insight. Yes, it's destructive, I can't seem to stop no matter how I try. I'll try and get help for this.
Ugh. Silent treatments are terrible. Hug her and just lie there still without talking until she's ready to talk. If that doesn't work, I can't help you. Maybe it's time to consider someone who responds?
Because when the communication shuts down from one party, you really have nothing left to work with. I think she still needs to work on the manner of handling things though, silent treatment just aren't great in the long run unless you don't mind it dealing with that for the rest of your life.
It's a break, not a break up. Rules should be set. It's for him to sort out his feelings, I don't see how rules get in the way.
And if he doesn't agree to not seeing other people during the break, please break up with him. Because he just wants to keep you around as a back up and still potentially fall in love with someone else. Otherwise, why would he object to the rule? See if there's really any valid reason for why he'll object other than "breaks shouldn't have rules" but I doubt it.
You're not backup girl, just remember that. Find a man who thinks you're number 1.
I like the way you describe relationships. A growing experience for both. I guess I have to work on my own views of relationships.
I always think if both are willing to work on it (I see efforts from his end to really listen, it's really not one of not giving a shit. He'll really take the time) then it will work.
Honestly I wish I could understand he doesn't care because so far, efforts wise, he's shown he has.
I suppose so, he did say the world is black and white to him. It's all or nothing. He's told me he's not controlling and is willing to listen to my reason and if he sees it's justified, of course he'll change his mind.
I'm very confused honestly. I have trouble seeing him as a bad person. If he's not planning to change his mind, he could just flat out not listen. But he bothers to. What does that mean?
I guess I can see that he cares? It'll be a hell lot easier to leave if he just shows signs of not caring like not bothering to show up when I'm upset, telling me to shut up etc.
There's none of that. He listens, he sits there and listens. If I'm upset, he comes to me to listen. Of course he interrupts a hell lot, and he really likes to be right. But he shows up, willingly to hear me out.
He often doesn't get the real issue I'm trying to address. He thinks it's something else. If I bring up one point as an example, he'll contest that one point specifically, the sentence, the wording everything. So I think, oh hey, he's right. Then I realize, wait, had I zoomed out a bit, then another picture emerges. It takes me a while to get to that stage, so ultimately, by the time I see it, I'm exhausted, I've agreed that he's right but my real issue never gets addressed. If I have energy left, then we'll address the issue and usually then he gets it after some resistance.
I think both of you make sense actually.
I'd say, give her time to come to terms with it. What you told her was probably really difficult for her to accept/understand coming from what she's used to, her age etc and that's why she left in a cab. It's more her needing time to digest it, and trying to convince her more at this point will just make things worse.
Once she's calmer, you can just let her know you understand her concerns, that you know she's uncomfortable about you looking at other women (just validate her perspective) and ask her if she's open to understanding it from your perspective? Not from statistics or other people, but just your perspective, why you feel it's important to you and that you don't think any less of her because of porn etc.
Ultimately, she may come to terms with it or she may not. It's up to her to decide if it's a deal-breaker. If it is and you want to keep the relationship, give it up.
Usually most couples settle for a good comprise of eh, I don't like you doing it but I'll close one eye and the guy will just watch less porn naturally cos the thought of his gf being uncomfortable kinda takes some of the joy away. Lol. But ultimately they're both quite satisfied.
Yup I'm an ambivert too and I have said exactly what you said, why the f do I crave and need people when I get tired and sapped when I'm with them.
What I do see from your post is a lot of self criticism. I do that a lot too but it's not going to help make you more at ease talking to others. Made an inappropriate joke? Don't think about it. Half the time people are more worried about how they speak and themselves and not so much about you. And maybe you just haven't met the right bunch of people but don't give up.
And try joining board games activities. I find there's not too much pressure to talk but you still get the company of others. I also join classes and stuff so I can get human contact without having to socialize too much. When you spend time with a group of people constantly, you become familiar to them just through time spent doing the same activity and maybe you'll feel less judged.
