I loved this movie! I didn’t know where it was going at first but every scene kept me engaged. I loved how they developed all the character relations slowly, subtly, dysfunctional yet realistic, without ever needing to explain anything. It was a movie that made me feel warm at the end. and yes the cast is brilliant.
I think it’s just a way to show affection. As kids, we link arms or hold hands with people we feel close to without giving it much thought. That, until society messes it up. When I was a teen, I continued my tradition of holding my childhood best friend’s hand until classmates started to speculate we were lesbians and I stopped to kill the rumors.
I find that as societies continue to develop and have increased exposure of western concepts, their awareness of homosexuality is increased but so does homophobia in that sense seeing how most Asian still frown upon it.
A Chinese male friend for example would be quite touchy with other men just as a way to be friendly, but when he acted that way with Australian and Koreans, they were extremely uncomfortable and started making all kinds of gay jokes.
In any case, I have continued to link arms with my best friend. We’re best friends, if the world thinks we’re more than that, nothing wrong with it I suppose.
I would find it unusual, but a lot has to depend on your wife’s background and her relationship with her friend as well. If they are very close friends, maybe this is her way of asking for ‘me’ time and relieving the past days where she and her friend would share the bed and have a heart to heart talk. I’m guessing perhaps that your spare room might not have a bed large enough for two?
In the end, the best way is just to ask your wife directly, letting her know that you would like to understand her better. I think she would really appreciate your interest in her and be happy to share her thoughts with you without you having to do the guesswork.
Just my two cents as someone from Southeast Asia.
I do agree with you, but then pragmatism has to kick in somehow. I don’t deny that liberal arts is wonderful. I loved liberal arts, majored in one, and yes while it opened my eyes to some things, I still didn’t think it was worth a college education and thousand of dollars over.
In the end, when it comes to the real world,your liberal arts education is overlooked and becomes essentially worthless because employers do not see its value the same way. This isn’t a matter of materialism anymore but one of survival. One can only allow oneself to indulge in the “frivolities” and character-building part of the liberal arts only if one doesn’t have to worry about financial situations and paying off debts.
I feel there’s such a great disconnect these days between a college education and the real world that I’m losing hope in education. I wish those two were more connected somehow. A college degree these days is just a matter of whether one can afford it or not. It doesn’t really count for anything for. I have friends who are far more open minded and intellectual without every obtaining a degree simply because they could never afford one.
Wow I didn't know this was the case for overseas Vietnamese. I thought in general that petty corruption is strife in most of Southeast Asia. How is it like for foreigners visiting Vietnam? 
My brother had an experience in Indonesia where he was caught for speeding. Instead of bribing the traffic police as everyone did, he chose to follow through the proper legal method. His license was taken away for days and he was asked to appear in court. After waiting for half a day at court, the judge never showed up. With no way out he finally paid the bribe. It's tough in a sense how one could possibly end all this petty corruption with such systems in place. Thank you for sharing a piece of your history. It was wonderfully written and insightful.
It’s amazing the way you are teaching your children to live and I passionately believe we can all make a difference in little ways as well. I look forward to reading more of your journeys.
