Not a bible question, but couldn't find the right thread for it. 
I'm struggling with an issue. I've been really disturbed by a colleague for ages. We used to be very good friends and I understand her very well and know quite a bit about her. 
We haven't talked in ages and she is openly hostile with me, to the point of blatantly showing me she hates me even when I'm neutral and civil. She has some issues and has been hostile to many other colleagues. Same pattern, they'd be friends with her because she genuinely can be very lovely and eventually her vindictiveness drives them away. 
I'm still bothered by her constantly. Everyday I can hear her talking out loud be it putting down other people and lauding herself. From a neutral perspective and based on my understanding of her (she's had a tough childhood), I understand that it's only because she's so terrible at handling stress. She's constantly angry and negative. But I can't seem to emphatize. I can understand it thereotically but everytime I try to emphatize, she'll be so awful to me or someone everything goes out of the window. I admit I really dislike her attitude and find her very annoying,but i really try my best not to be hostile or show it to her. 
It doesn't actually matter because we're both leaving the company. When my departure was announced, she said out loud, "finally". It's not unexpected, and I understand her hostility but at the same time I don't. I'd never do anything to intentionally hurt her. I guess I'd like some peace. I'd like to not be bothered by her even as she serves out her last week in the company. I'd like to be able to see her in a good light because I still see the good in her even if I don't really want to go near her. I suppose it's for my own peace. 
How do I do that? When she's still cursing away out loud at everything and treating other colleagues badly. When she insinuates everyone is working terribly and mockingly saying that she should just do the same since she's leaving and create trouble for the next person. When she appears to be so lovely to those who knows no better?
